This is a book by EM Forster. I'd say that its definitely one of my top 3 books(the other two being Pride and Prejudice and War and Peace). The writing is really top notch, and the emotion and scene setting is something which was mentally taxing to read due to how vivid it was (thats of course what everyone strives for). The author is clearly a very insightful and intutive person, and more importantly knows how to get his ideas across to the reader, with the added bonus of the writing
being absolutely beautiful. Having read a lot of books for the 19th and early 20th century era, oftentimes the characters tend to get repetative. However this book presented some of the most unique characters I've ever encountered, and presented them to the reader through descriptions as well as powerful carefully choosen interactions, which while succinct, gave a very clear image of the kind of person the character is. The attitudes presented, on the side of the Indians (both
Hindus and Muslims) as well as those taken by the British (men and women) was something that was actually new and astute. The variety of attitudes, and the contracts drawn made everything seem that much more real. 
A British Judge in India has his mother and possible future fiance over. There they encounter an Indian doctor Aziz(who is Muslim) who is especially taken up with the mother (Mrs Moore). He invites them to explore the Malabar caves. However while on the expedition, the possible fiance (Adela) gets lost in the cave, and fancies herself sexually assulted. She gives a complaint to the government who arrest Aziz. However Adela, who ends up getting injured, is later unable to recall
whether the assult actually took place, and takes her statement back while testifying in court. Aziz is freed. A British teacher Cryil, who is a recent close friend of Aziz, supports him through the trial, and consequentely is ostracized by the British. Eventually Cyril sympathizes with Adela after getting to know her better, and convinces Aziz to not sue Adela and ruin her prospects. Eventually Aziz gets suspicious of Cyril, but later things get clarified.
I strongly identified with Cyril, and felt he was the most similar to me compared to any other character I've come across (War and Peace for exaample had a bunch of them but I could not really identify with any of them (to a limited extent prince Audrey)). He was one of the reasons the book went from being a great book to one of my top 3 books (not because I identified with him, but because of how he was handled by Forster). Another interesting character is the simple
but enigmatic Mrs Moore. Mrs Moore after the caves, while unrealistic, was something memorable. Aziz with his pet peeves, especially feeling offended of being accused of molesting an ugly English women was another interesting character. A lot of things said about the English women and their influence upon the men also rang true with my experiences in life. The scenes are the court, and the trepedation of the Indian Judge, the description of the Indian adonis of a lower caste
etc are all very memorable. There is just so much to love in this book, that it will be impossible to list everything here (probabaly easier to list things I disliked), so I'll stop. Approx no of pages:350. Rating 10/10
