This is a book by edith wharton. It is a really good read. The writing is amazing, as are some of the insights offered. Funny thing is, I had read this book a few years back, but had actually forgotten all about it, however reading the first paragraph felt wierd, like I'd already read it before. It was nice to revisit it after so much time.
The story is set in old New York. The protagonist archer is embedded in the New York society of the time, and although he finds much to criticize, his reverrance for society is too great to lead to any actual censure, and he is rather smug about the society of his times. He is all set to marry one of the most eligible spinsters, who is also breathtakingly beautiful, if somewhat naive, but he feels that under his guidance all that will change. However a cousin of his wife to be, ellen comes back from Europe after having run away from her abusive marriage. Archer instinctively extends his protection to her, his future familiy ties obliging him to do what's right, and he comes out in support of her. Initially most of New York society is against ellen, but Archer manages to change her standing. However during this time, his brief interactions with Ellen change his whole perspective on life, and his attitude towards her changes from one of resentment for putting him in a tight spot, to the most passionate affection.
Ellen is unlike anyone he's every met  before and he slowly falls in love with her. The discovery of this feelling is a shock to him. During this time he also feels that his affection for May, his fiance is cooling, and finds her inadequate as his companian, a remanent of his old life. Upon finding out that Ellen receprocates his feelings, he asks her to come away with him, but she makes him promise that he won't do anythng rash, and threatens to go back to her husband if that's what it took. So Archer finds himself in a loveless marriage, at least from his side, the other being to gay/naive to even realize anything. However his wife still sense that something is off, although she doesnt fully realize what exactly it is. And so a few years go on, Ellen and Archer meet after nearly two years. This event changes Archer and he is desperate to run off with ellen. However she stays aloof and reminds him of her threat. After a few intermediary events Archer finally decides to leave everything off and run away with Ellen. He braces himself for his social suicide, but just when he's about to make his move, his wife tells him that she's pregnant. She also tells him taht Ellen has gone back to Europe after May informed her of her pregnancy. After this all the fight goes out of Archer, and he becomes a domestic man without any fanciful ideas.
The last chapter takes us a few decades down the line, Archer's son is fully grown up, and is on the verge of getting married. Society has changed, really changed, and things that were dearer to one than life are now looked upon as trivialities. We see that Archer has led a largely quite uneventful life, just a small footnote in mankinds history. May is dead, and but he can't make up the nerve to contact Ellen. Once, when he goes to Europe with his son, and he goes up to meet ellen, archer stays away, unable to bear the encounter.
The novel is packed with insights, and dilemas. It is really powerful, and is also technically nice. I read that on the back cover, and could actually see what they meant when they said technically good. All the characters are painted with care and precision, making one really connect to them, and feel invested. The ending, about societal change in general, about how things that matter just don't anymore after some time, and about archer not  going up to see ellen, is heart breaking. Approx no of pages ~300. Rating 10/10.

