This is a rather short novel by Erich Maria Remarque about the horrors of war. The fact that it is said in an nonchalant almost flippant way, makes the narrative more powerful. It was orginally written in german and I read the English translation. Yet it maintained its power, and almost makes one a pacifist.
We are given a first person narrative from the point of view of a low ranking soldier in the german army, fighting a war not his own, seeing through the propoganda, and yet being pushed along, powerless and unwilling to do anything to stop the progress of the war. He enlists, along with his entire class, at the behest of their school master, and his chavanistic speech. Initially the sadism of one of their trainers unites the group against a common enemy and toughens them. This prepares them for the FRONT. There the protagonist continuously loses comrades, and develops a layer of indifference, as a coping mechanism. He gets leave for a few weeks and goes home, where food is scare and his mother is sick. He breaks down there, and all his supressed feelings come rushing out, breaking through his defense mechanisms and he regrets coming home. When he goes back to the front, he is a changed man. He is given an easy posting to guard an officer's food supply, which is under heavy enemy shelling at the moment. There they make the most of it, and live big. However all good things must come to and end, and he has to go back to where he action is taking place. En route, they come under fire, and a friend of his gets hit in the leg. He is also injured. On the way back, they bribe their way into a good recuperation center. He is soon cleared for duty and is sent back to the front, where he dies, a small footnote in a report, which says all quiet on the western front.
On the whole it was a nice novel, powerful and moving, which is more than one can say for most novels. I find myself thinking, it can't be that bad, it must be hyperbole, but (shrugs emoji). Rating 9/10. Approx no of pages ~200.
