This is a book by Triveni, whoever that is. I was initially not going to write a summary of this, and then I was like hmm.., why not and so here we are. The book is in Kannada. I read it to brush up my kannada reading skills. It was fun, albeit slow.
	The book starts off by introducing the main character Kalyani, and her sister in law, Vatsala and her brother X. In the marriage of Vatsala's brother, Kalyani runs into Ramanatha. There is some chemistry between them, although nothing is very explict, but is rather playful. They run into each other again at Kalyani's hometown, mysore. Kalyani's brother X decides that they have a little chemistry and asks Ramanatha for a match. Ramanatha says he'll get back to him after clearing it with his parents. Meanwhile Ramanatha starts thinking a lot about Kalyani, and decides he's in love with her. Just when X is starting to think that Ramanatha is not serious about the match, he gets a letter from the later to the effect that the match is a go.
	When Kalyani is told about this, she realizes that she too likes Ramanatha. Its a neat little love story, very convinient. Goes to show that anyone can like almost anyone really. For some reason they keep stressing that Kalyani likes Ramanatha's innocent hearty childlike laugh, which is without even an inkling of self consciousness. Eventually they get married, and things couldn't be any better. Kalyani is happy to stay at home and wait for Ramanatha to come home from work. They go out regularly and Ramanatha spends most of his free time with his new wife. However they soon start drifting apart, with Kalyani making new friends, and joining some society. Ramanatha begins to go to the club. Eventually they spend less and less time together, and Kalyani starts feeling bored with her life. She is educated, and has a BSc degree, but isn't doing anything with her education, for which she spent many sleepless nights.
	She comes across an Ad in the newspaper for the position of a teacher. She applies, and then forgets about it. She gets back a reply asking her to come in for an interview. She then tells her husband about it, and convices him to let her go for it. He agrees to it, although begrudgingly (he doesn't have anything against women working in genreal, but feels that there is no need for his wife to work since she has enough money given to her by her husband). Kalyani gets through the interview round, and is hired. Kalyani again convinces her husband to tell the matter to her in laws. The ever so parsimonous father in law, just asks her how much she will be paid. The mother in law however tells her that there is no reason for her to work since there is enough money in the house. However she is soon brought around. 
	All this takes place a few years after marriage. After a few months of work, Ramanatha is dissatisfied with Kalyani working. Although he was open to the idea at first, he finds Kalyani always tired, and she rarely ever spends time with him, several days barely two works being spoken between the couple. He fears for her health and misses his wife. They go to the doctor for a routine check up, and when the doctor tells Kalyani that she has to take some rest and eat more, Kalyani laughs it off. However Ramanatha uses this as an excuse to broach the subject of Kalyani's quitting work. Kalyani is incredulous and starts imputing all sorts of unfounded reasons such as envy at her earning money, and so on. They get into a fight with Kalyani and Ramanatha both digging their heels in and refusing to budget, and reach a compromise. Kalyani has grow to love her job and believes that her husband can't stand to see her happy and independant. Raamanatha goes to the principal and talks to her directly, and presents the situation to her in a very convincing light. She promises him to meditate on it, and bring up the topic at the next council meeting.
	Kalyani is furious that her husband went over her head and met the principal behind her back. This are very precarious and there is no peace at home. Soon Kalyani is relived from her position. This is the final straw, and she comes home beside herself with fury, and packs up and leaves. She goes back to her hometown, hoping to find a welcoming home and a sympathatic ear. She plaintively tells her story to her family. However Ramanatha had already written to them and asked X not to indulge her, so that she will come to, and accept his point of view. So a surprised Kalyani finds herself being called spoilt and is blamed for not respecting the wishes of her husband. Meanwhile she is still stubborn, and is refuses to go home. Her husband misses her but he also refuses to go see her, till she apologizes for her behaviour. One day he gets a letter informing him that she is sick. Althoug he longs to see her, he decides that that would be letting her win and he doesn't want that. However after a few days, he feels that its not worth it and decides to go visit her. Throughout the journey he finds himself growing more and more paranoid that she will be dead, by the time he reaches her and is in absolute terror of that event occuring, so much so that before going to her house, he visits the neighbouring hospitals, which were en route from the train station. 
	When he finally goes to the house, he finds it enclosed in a dealthly stillness and silence. He fears the worst, and walks in. He meets his mother in law, and circumspectly asks her where Kalyani is. She informs him that she had decided that the fight was not worth it, and had abruptly left, being determined to see Ramanatha as soon as possible. Ramanatha heaves a huge sigh of relief, feeling like a huge load has been lifted off his cheast, and at the same time happy that they both lost at the same time, resulting in both of the winning.
	Like I said before I randomly picked up this novel, it having turned up first in a google search for kannada novels. I mainly read it to brush up on my Kannada reading skills which were growing quite rusty. However I quite enjoyed the book, and the last scene of Ramanatha fearful lest his wife were dead, and blaming himself for it, and the tension he felt, were very well written. The overall plot was well built if somewhat generic. The specifics were so so. It felt like there was a secrect overtone of a message to the novel, women working is bad. I don't know if I was reading too much into it or not, but it felt like Kalyani had most of the streotypes of a women, and the thing generally done in movies like God's not dead, namely picking a very specific situation which seems which fits their narrative and rolling with it. Its not that they agree to it all the time, but here in that one case its undeniable. That's what the situation of Kalyani working felt like. The husband is okay with women working, and he even tried Kalyani working for quite a while. But in the end he finds that she is fully immersed in work, and is becoming a workoholic, and has to time for family, being exhausted all the time due to work. Although I present it in a much worse light that it is, I felt this way because, even now women working is a touchy topic in most households and so a novel like this could have supported it, and helped, rather than painting such a picture of women working. 
	Okay wow, I sound like an SJW here, and found the novel, all of it, nice. But during some ages it is better to let some topics slide, and I felt this wasn't done her. Okay I see now that I'm being ridiculous, but I'll let that part stay because I don't want to erase my fancies and leaps of imagination. Should read another kannada book soon, it was fun. Depicted rural ideas quite well.  Rating 8/10. Approx no of pages 170.
