This book by Jack London was a very short novel and quite entertaining overall.
The dog buck, is initially from the soft south, and belongs to a judge. There he lives a peaceful happy life, but then he is stolen and sold off to the north, where there is a great demand for sled dogs. 
Life up north is totally different from what buck is usually used to. For one, there are no handouts and its survival of the fittest. And buck quickly adapts to his new environment, and is a quick learner. All this time, his instincts, long supressed during his time in civilization, are coming back to him. People marvel at bucks size and his cleaverness. 
Soon they put a harness to him, and start off on a long journey, across the snow. Buck makes mistakes but quickly adapts to his new role, and never makes the same mistake twice, learning along the way. On the way, bucks natural dominance is coming back, now that he's returned to the wild, and he eventually challenges the lead dog of the pack and takes him down, making him the new leader. 
After much hardship they finally pull into their destination, giving the dogs a much needed rest. Buck has grow lean and strong in his service, and now he relaxes and gains back some of his lost weight. The humans who drove him in, saw goodbye, and he is handed off to some other team. The farewell is touching, as the duo have grown to love buck, due to his smartness, which led to them making record time on the trip. However the dogs now go over to another team, which drives them harder, making them carry heavy loads. Although the men are compassionate and try to lessen the burden of the dogs, the extra work is too much, and the dogs are severely strained.
When they finally reach their destination, the dogs don't get the much needed rest that they want, and are instead sold off to some inexperienced gold hunters. They don't know what they are doing, and once they set off, they work the dogs to death, and almost kill buck too. However buck reaches a breaking point, and is so tired that he doesn't get up to pull the sled. At this time, his owners start beating him brutally. That's when Bucks human love enters, saving buck from his inevitable death, had he continued in possession of the inexperienced gold hunters. Buck grows to love thorton immensely, and is willing to do anything for him, even saving his life once, at immense risk to his own. However the call of the wild is deep in buck and he starts spending more and more time in the forest. However his human love ties him down, emotionally, and buck is unwilling to leave his side. However during one of buck's escapades into the forest, his human love is killed by some Indians. Buck finds them leaning over his dead body, and attacks them without second thought. He sucessfuly drives them off, becoming a legend in the process. However with his last tie to civilization gone, buck goes off into the wild to take his natural place as the leader of a pack and live according to his instincts.
Rating 8/10. Approx no of pages 100.
