Chaos is a popular science book by James Gleick. Its a bit melodramatic even for a popular science book. However it offers a fresh perspective unlike the other popular science books, which deal with largely the same topics. However it tries to appeal to too broad an audience even for a popSc book and so hardly goes into any sort of depth, even when there are no prerequisites required. A last complaint is that it tends to over dramatize people and their idiocyncrasies, feeding into the whole eccentric scientist stereotype and pandering to people's beliefs about science.
	The book starts off by talking about the butterfly effect and the way people stumbled across it through computer simulations and imprecision. He talks about how non linearity can cause small effects to blow up sometimes, as opposed to the traditional view that small changes to initial conditions tend to cancel out in the long run. Again here he focuses more on the person than the effect itself.
	He talks about the ubiquity of nonlinearity in nature with linearity being the exception, and yet mainstream science has only been focusing on solving linear problems, ignoring nonlinearity or approximating it to linearity to get approximate solutions, missing out a wealth of insight in the process.
	Then the book talks about fractals, and many mathematical strucutres having an almost repeating structure, but never quite the same. This infinitely repeating structure is seem in nature in sea coasts, and snowflakes. It leads to unintutive results such as an infinite perimeter enclosing a finite area. This field lead to an introduction of the concept of fractional dimension
	Next the concept of strange attractors in phase space is used. Phase space is a representation of some phenomenon, with the number of degress of freedom determining the dimension of the space. Looking at the movement of points in phase space, one sees some kind of osscilation about a point, about a strage attractor, and this is what leads to order among chaos, the similarity in the structure that repeats itself, and yet is never quite the same. The points never retract the same line, and this is possible because of the concept of an infinite perimeter bounding a finite area. And yet there is some kind of steady state, an equilibrium, about the strange attractor, and this is seem in nature everywhere.
	While isolated scientists were working on chaos, many people redoing already proved results due to a lack of communication, they were paraih's of the established scientific community. And yet they perservered, and eventually chaos started gaining more traction in mainstream science. People began carrying out experiments to find chaos, sometimes in computers through simulations, using numerical methods to plot insolvable differential equations. Yet others started carrying out experiments in fields like fluid dynamics, trying to see the pattern of convention in fluids, like liquid helium, in its transformation from linear to nonlinear, looking at the dripping of a faucet, almost periodic, but not quite.
	People began realizing that a reductionist approach would not work in many cases, especially in biology. Our body is a hive of nonlinearity, especially parts like our hearth and brain. Studying non linear systems is the only way to make any progress in these fields. However since most people in the life sciences didn't receive much education in math, and they having enough to learn in their own field, and due to a similar boxing of the different fields, leading to more reductionism, many people failed to see the connection, and many ideas were met with intense resistance. Our body relies in the order in chaos to function, and so finding that order, those strange attractors in phase space, was the only way forward to studying the heart, all other efforts having proved futile.
	Another insight into chaos was when people realized that one could consider chaotic systems as generating information, and bringing the huge entropy of the microworld into the macroworld. This link, resulted in rapid progress, through already established pathways in the field of information theory.
	Now Chaos has been accepted under the wing of mainstream science, and people have began to search for strange attractors everywhere, trying to find patterns and make sense of data, and short term fluctations, which people had ignored out of exasperation and frustruation till that point in time.
	The book offered a fresh perspective into science, and also some of the drawbacks in the scientific community. Although most of the things given here were revolutionary and he does say that people couldn't decide whether this was math or whether it was physics, since it used the same fundamental laws, just using new techniques and clever manipulations to explain the complexity of the real world, he seriously makes everything so dramatic, and focuses more on the person than on the discovery. But the book really did give out quite a lot of new content, although the information per page was really low, and the depth of each topic was not very great, I feel that that can be forgiven in view of all the great content. My main been with the writing style was that it read like a novel, and unlike other popular science books by say richard dawkins and roger penrose, who assume that their audience are smart, if not proficient in the field under consideration, and so write books keeping that in mind, not babying stuff too much, this assumes that the readers are, not stupid, but quite close to it, and that felt a bit patronizing(maybe I'm reading too much into it, but thats just what I felt). Would definitely recommend it to people though. Rating: 9/10. Approx number of pages: 340.
