The communist manifesto was written by karl marx and friedrich engles. It lays out the main ideals of the communist party and their normative views. It also talks about their relation to other political movements of the time.
In the book the authors introduce the proletariat, the working class, exploited by the bourgeoise, the ones owning capital and the means of production, and the exploiters of the proletariat. They believe that due to the increasing advances in production, for the first time in human history, we sometimes have a crisis of over production. Continuing growth at this rate is according to them sure to lead to a wider dispartiy between the proletariat and the bourgeoise, meanwhile wiping out all other classes. Capital is the chief evil, and results in people who earn the most doing almost no work, while the proletariat who work the hardest, earn the bare minimum to survive, and continue work. In such a system where everything is a commodity to be traded, the work of an individual, upon which he depends for his livelihood, is also up for trade, and due to the abundance of labour is set to the lowest possible value. And as capital increases, the number of the proletariat also increase, and their wages fall further. Meanwhlie more capital is produced. This explosion of production and capital is seen by the authors to be unsustainable, and forces the rural to depend on the urban and the uncivilized countries to depend on the civilized just to form markets where one can sell goods, for more capital to make more goods. The main problem is the concentration of capital with the bourgeoise who don't really do anything, but just enjoy the benefits of others hard work.
The Slave is different from the proletariat in that, his master is responsible for him, and his upkeep and he shall not be neglected, whereas the proletariat although socially free,is really a slave to capital (wage labor) and doesn't belong to one master but the entirity of the bourgeoise, and so no one is really responsible for him, but everyone exploits him. He is different from the serf, in that the serf is given land and is responsible for production, and has to give a part of it to his landlord, whereas the proletariat only sells his labour, just like another input commodity. In this new system, where the prices are abnormally low due to the industrial armies in factories, and division of labour along with the use of machines, everyone either has to get in line or perish. Focus has shifted to the towns, from the rural areas, and people are getting more and more concentrated in  towns.
While the criticism of capitalism is just and of a consumeristic society is undeniable true, they also offer ways in which to deal with these crisis, which seems a little idealistic at best. Abolition of private property, in the sense of abolition of capital, and using a new metric to allow people to enjoy the fruits of their labour. Moving over of the means of production to the state, to prevent abuse. Transportation and other key amenities to be the exclusive rights of the state. Siezing proprety of rebels and emmigrants(for some reason). Education of children by the state, from a very young age, no more traditional families where the kid stays at home and is thought what his parents see fit. Abolition of inheretence of estates and a highly progressive income tax. The last two along with the abolition of private property are their main goals. The main problem with this is that it gives immense power to those incharge and the can easily misuse it. Even if not misused, its impossible for a human to be able to make so many decisions all ideally, and get the whole economyi to work, its more complicated than that and there are a lot more variables. Yet the policies of a high progressive income tax, along with a level playing field, by taking all children to a state facility seem good in principle, but its very easy to see this decay into a despotic society, where everyone is indoctrinated with propoganda, and there is no critical thinking. And this artificial forcing of everyone to be equal is not really a good thing, some people are simple better than others, this is purely on an individualistic basis, and not based on race or sex or any generalizations of that sort, but its true. Another problem with this system is it allows everyone to procreate freely, and the state cares for everyone's offspring. This could become a real problem, especially when people like orthodox jews and muslims are around. Although in such a society such level of religious brainwashing wouldn't be there, people with such a mentality could pose a problem. 
Lastly they talk about the prevalent forms of socialism back then, and debunk it, as an example they city fedual socialism which is regressive in nature, petty bourgeoise socialism, which is mostly taken up by the petty bourgeoise as they are afraid to fall into the proletariat class and so on.
Overall most of the arguments are valid and theoritically could work. However giving so much power to the state would never work out in real life, and although capitalism has its flaws its the best there is and the only thing that can be done are reasonable regulations, whereever necessary, such as in cases of inheritance, which should be heavily taxed or outright banned, and a high progressive income tax. However things like raising of the children by the state, shouldn't be done, because then who gets to decide whats to be taught. No one should have that power, and free speech is the only way to go on this issue. Sometimes its better to lose a little in terms of equality and in terms of size of the economic pie, if that gives on freedom, because without freedom, everything will almost inevitably decay into some despotic state of affairs.
One last thing I'd like to say would be, the main problem for almost all of these issues is over population. The sudden growth of population is what lead to such an increase and market sizes, and such a surplus of labour as well, which is essentially what lead to the abysmally low wages and terrible working conditions. There should be some regulation in terms of number of offspring one can have, or there should be some incentive system to discourage people from having more than two kids, and although that might in the short run lead to a decrease in the size of the workforce and may therefore lead to economic problems, it is definitely better in the long run and is the only way to sustainably move forward. Its really surprising how over population is the cause of most of the problems today, and people still try to not talk about it as much, and instead try to solve it by other means, which might solve or reduce the problem for the moment, but will not be a true solution as logn as over population is a thing.
Last thought, he says that communism, will in the short run maybe not work that well, becauses it deincentivizes people and stuff, but shall in the long run work out for the best. Theoritically I could see that happening, and true capitalism is a greedy algorithm and favours the immediate best sometimes sacrificing the optimal solution. But I still see every possible communistic society breaking down into a totalitarian state, with intense propoganda. It might not be the case, but its not worth sacrificing freedom, just to try it out, regulatons are instead the way to go.
Rating 9/10. Approx number of pages 80 (the one I read had some supplementary stuff, the actual one might be closer to 50 or 40).
