This is a book by Frank Herbert. Its a sequel to Dune, the most popular sci fi
book in terms of number of sales. Its starts off quite a few years into Pauls
reign, with a plan to assasinate him, and take control by the the guild, which
is meant to represent capitalism(I guess). Leaving aside the heavy symbolism,
and its parallels in today's world, the most striking feature of this short work
is the prose. Frank Herberet's writing style is unique, and to his intrigue themed
scifi books on alien worlds, is akin to Tolkein's writing style for his fantasy
novels, and in my opinion, vastly superior. This book is a page turner from
start to finish, never feeling dry, leaving something mysterious about each of
its characters adding a level of depth to them, making you see things every
way, and yet not understand everythings that going on. All this makes it feel
very real, in a way.
The story begins with a conspirasy to kill the emperor Paul of Dune. His wife
(of a strategic marriage), a disciple of the Bene G..., her mentor, one guildman
and a facedancer all meet to discuss and cement the plan to take out the emperor.
However this surreptitious group is not of one mind, being wary of each other,
and trying to figure out their motives. They finally agree to go ahead, and try
their luck at bringing down the emperor, in whose name a terrible jihad is being
carried out, and whose monopoly over the spice melange delivers guild to him,
as though it is in the palm of his hand. The decison taken they set about their
ways. Next we meet the emperor, a few years down the road from where we left
off at dune, a little worse for the wear. He is with his sister and his concubine,
whom he considers his true wife. They are discussing matters of state. They also
argue about Paul continuing his line by having kids through his legal wife. Paul
doesn't want to, but Chani, his concubine, feeling that this is only on her behalf,
tries to persuade him to go through with it. She is also fearful of the instability
that the lack of an heir will cause. Soon the guild, along with the facedancer
pay a visit to Paul's court and make him a gift of his old comrade's ghola. Paul
knowing that this is a trick, still accepts the gift, and is curious about it.
Thus the conspiracy begins. Soon, he is lured into going out, away from the
safety of the palace. However Paul is fully in the light, regarding the plot,
but still choses to go. Upon a dwarf being given to him, Paul senses that
something is wrong. When he leaves, he finds that enemy's are around him, and
they set off an atomic, which was forbidden by an agreement. This blinds Paul's
Gaurd and Paul himself. However using his prescinence, he can still see, sans eyes.
This seeming miracle goes a long way in establishing the legend of Paul.
The dwarf given to Paul, turns out to be a ploy and instructs the Gohla to kill
Paul in an appropriate moment(upon the loss of his beloved Chani).
Soon Chani concives, and realizes that it was Pauls wife, adding contraceptives
surreptiously into her meals, that prevented her from bearning an heir before this.
Her new diet cleared the contraceptives out of the ssytem and allowed her to
conceive. But Paul is sad, since he knows that she shall die at childbirth.
However he does not inform her of this. According to tradition, they go to the
desert for the birthing. Meanwhile Paul's sister, also revered as a God, is growing
up and despite her being born all knowledgable, is experiencing the pangs of thet
flesh at puberty. She is intimate with the ghola.
Chani dies on the birthing table, giving birth to twins. Paul has never forseen
twins, and loses his foresignt at this new turn of events. The Ghola overcomes
his orders, surprising himself, however Paul is taciturn, griving at the loss,
but is not surprised at the Ghola's control over itself. The dwarf threats to
kill the babies, and offers a deal wherein the facedancers will save Chani,
making her into a  Ghola, in return for Pauls fealty. However Paul, through the
perspective of his son (now completely blind himself) kills the dwarf. He finally
walks off into the desert in the old freeman tradition, where blind men have
to be left in the desert to meet their end. Through this death of his, he cementss
his line and changes the course of humanity into the best possible one.
Again I'm not doing the book justice in the summary and the main selling point
is the prose rather than the plot. Definitely a great read, do check it out.
Approx no of pages~350. Rating 9/10.
