This is a novel by thomas hardy. He is a very good writer, and this is the third book of his that I've read. Although his writing is beautiful, the theme in the books was largely the same. The main focus of the book seems almost trifling, at least to me who has never really experienced anything deep attachment, or infactuation. But the writing more than makes up for it.
 In this book, we follow Bathesheba, the protagonist, who lives an isolated life in the country. She is supposed to be breath takingly beautiful, almost painfully so. There is an air of poignance in the later part, although she is playful in the earlier part of the book. She initially meets Oak, a farmer who knows his way around the world, and universally liked. He is one of the up and coming folk, and feels confident of his prospects. He is the first to succumb to Ms. Everdene's charm, and professes his love for her. However she doesn't accept him. Although Oak is disappointed life goes on. Meanwhile Bathesheba moves away, and Oak doesn't hear about her. One day, due to an accident, he loses most of his flock and is barely able to pay off his debts. He is left penniless, and Farmer Oak becomes shephard Oak, looking for a job. His search takes him to a nearby village, where his opportune presence, in the midst of a fire, saves the owner of the farm a lot of money. It turns out that the owner is Bathesheba, and so Oak decides to stay on as shepherd there itself.
  He learns of how Bathesheba came into the farm, through the death of an uncle. She has determined to take care of it herself, without help from a baliff, which is quite characteristic of her independent nature. She turns a lot of heads in the market as she makes rounds, to sell her produce or buy equipment for the farm, as a result of her beauty. However one man does not notice her, a Mr Boldwood, and she finds her vanity injured by this slight. She playfully writes a note to him on Valentine's asking him to marry her. Mr Boldwood, a man of quiet dignity who has never given much thought to the female sex, finds himself awakening to a whole new world of thought and emotions, and he madly, passionately falls inlove with her. 
  Bathesheba, now regretful of her decision, tries to dissuade his court, but Boldwood perserveres. Feeling guilty, she promises to consider this proposal of marriage, and asks for a month's time. In that interval she runs into a Sergent Troy, who is a ladies man, and a glib talker, suave and confident around woman, pushing boundries, making them blush, and endearing himself to them all the time. Still in her youth, she falls for his frivolities, and smooth talk,  unable to see through them. She declines Boldwoods suit, and marries Troy instead. She soons grows to regret her decision, although she still loves him, seeing that he is but a dilettante in farming, and prefers a life of lazy days, and fast nights. 
  Meawhile Boldwood, still in the heat of passion, it showing no signs of colling down, neglects his farm, and goes into a steady decline. Oak, who has been loyal to Bathesheba, and still in love with her, also feels sorry for his mistress wishing only to see her happy. 
  One day while driving back from town, the married couple run into a woman, who is in a bad state. Troy recognizes her to be Fanny, a girl he had promised to marry, but who had later left him and run off when he didn't marry her. He feels sincere contrition for his past actions, and the misunderstanding, and asks her to meet him the next day at some predestined place and time. Bathesheba notices her husbands attentions to this woman. Later when they go home the begin arguing about the money that Troy lost in gambling, and eventually, almost inevitably the topic of Fanny comes up. Upon learning the truth, Bathesheba says some words, which although seemed warranted in the heat of the moment, were unkind. This causes a rise in Troy too, and the situation soon escalates, resulting in the first earnest fight of their marriage. Bathesheba runs off into the night, and Troy doesn't go after her. By the time she returns the next day, having spent the night outdoors, Troy is gone.
  Meanwhile, it turns out that Fanny was pregnant, and she has died due to fatigue and ill health. Troy however doesn't know this and waits for her at their rendezvous, and in a fit of temper at her not keeping their meeting, ends up going to the horse races. Meanwhile the coffin of Fanny arrives in her native parish, that of Bathesheba, as Fanny had actually worked for her uncle, quiting a week into the new owners tenure. Bathesheba is deeply affected by this, especially upon finding out that Fanny was pregnant. When Troy returns and finds the coffin, he is shocked, and in a fit of cruelty tells her that he loved Fanny and that she, Bathesheba is nothing compared to her. After this he heads out, arranging an expensive funeral for Fanny. It rains heavily that night, and all the decorations on Fanny's coffin are in disarray. Waking up next morning in Church, Troy finds this and he just walks away, feeling really sad. Later on while taking a bath in the river, he is carried away by the current, and is saved by a bunch of sailors on a boat. He goes off to work with them, feeling disgusted with his life, and wanting a new start. 
  Meanwhile his clothes are found, and everyone assumes him dead. After a few months Boldwood begins his court again, and Bathesheba, tired with life, and still feeling an immense sense of guilt due to her being the cause of the derailment of this honarable respected man's life, says that she will do so after 7 years. Boldwood satisfied, agress to wait. Meanwhile her husband, having travelled to America, and feeling homesick and also a little short on cash, decides to come back and claim what's his. He makes his presence know during a party, thrown by Boldwood in Bathesheba's honor. Bathesheba is dumbstruck upon seeing her husband, and when the latter grabs her hand, she screams. Boldwood, already high strung, snaps and grabs his gun and shoots him. He then goes to the police and turns himself in.
  After the dust settles, a few months later, Oak decides to give his notice, and try his luck elsewhere. This new change devestates Bathesheba, and she goes over to his place, for the first time, despite his working for her for several years, and things come up, which eventually leads to their being engaged. Oak's loyal love pays of in the end and they get married. 
  Again the writing is beautiful, and the theme although denounced above, begs the question, what is can one write about. Surely another Any Rand type too serious for its own good teenage angstsy novel is not what the world needs. So overall reading the novel was a really pleasant experience. It was a really page turner, its main strength lying in the fact that it makes the reader feel invested in the characters. It accomplishes this task, which many a writer has tried to achieve in vain, but bulding the characters as wholesome people, not one dimensional strawman who only have the minimal amount of character that one needs to get the story moving. 
  Another thing that this novel potrays really well, is beauty, especially beauty of nature. The description of the night when Oak saves the straw, the tense electric atmosphere, it almost made one feel like they were there. That scene was one of the best scenes I've ever read, and stands as a testimony to Hardy's great writing. A must read for anyone who reads. Rating 9/10. Approx number of pages~ 350.


