This is a book by Ivan Turgenev. I had already read it a while back, and felt like reading it again. Did not live up to my memory of it, but was still pretty good. The best thing about it was that all the characters had depth, and that made them seem all the more realistic. This book is all about the characters, and life in general, and its played out wonderfully. Some of the characters are very relatable.
Akardy and Barazov are two friends, or rather Akardy plays the role of a pupil in the friendship. He is devoted to Barazov and his ideals, just because he is a great man, and tries to follow them, although they go against his nature. The ideals reffered to are nihilism, and a general satrical view of life, considering nothing worth striving for, and all effort vain. While I have to objectively grant them this point, taking it to such an extreme and putting it to practice is a rather naive thing to do.
The story begins with the return of Akardy to his home after a long absence. His father Nikoli, a landowner, is eagerly waiting for him. Akardy arrives with Barazov and are met by Nikoli and they all go home. Nikoli is exuberant, and Akardy is also glad to be home. However in front of his mentor, he puts up a front of indifference. Nikoli has taken in a beautiful girl from his serfs, and thorugh her, sired a child. Although they love each other, they haven't married. Akardy is for his father marrying her. Pavel, Nikoli's brother, who has been staying with him for a few decades now, is upset with the philosophy that the young ones harbour.
The young men, decide to visit a neighbouring province, and there run into Madame Odintosova, a remarkable woman of striking appearence. She is a widower and invites them to her estate to spend a few days. They take her up on this offer, and spend nearly a fortnight there. Their time there changes the young men, probably for the better. Barazov, in spite of himself, falls in love with the madame, while Akardy hopelessly watches in the sidelines, still feeling himself a child in her presence. However he forms a close relationship with her sister, and they become comrades. Barazov, in despair, proclaims his love for the madame, but she doesn't reciprocate his feelings. 
They then leave for Barazov's parents house, and spend close to three days there. Barazov's parents are overjoyed to see their son after a period of nearly three years. The mother grows hysterical, despite the presence of a stranger. Barazov tolerates all this with an air of patronage, although he to is happy to be back. However he is restless, and his setting out so soon, leaves his parents, especially his mother heartbroken.
They go to madame's house in passing and eventually go back to Akardy's place. Akardy is restless, and upon a pretext sets out to the madame's to see her. However He first runs into her sister Katia, and finds out that its her that he truly likes. He spends a few days there. Towards the end of his stay, he makes a proclamation of love, and is accepted. Meanwhile, Barazov, having kissed Nikoli's mistress, is called out to a duel by Nikoli's brother Pavel, who witnessed the event. Barazov infures Pavel in the duel, but they end on good terms. Barazov decides to go back to his parents. On the way, he drops in to look in on Akardy, and is also made privy to his engagement.
Akardy and Katia get married, and Katia is accepted fondly by Nikoli, her father in law. Pavel having had a change of heart after the duel, grants his blessing to the union of Nikoli and his mistress, and they too get married.
Barazov, back home, begins helping his father in small things, albiet disparangingly at first, but as time progresses, he may have evenv began enjoying it. In life's presence, it's hard to stay despondent long, and although he might still adhere, theoritically, to his earlier premises, he doesn't practice them as much. However before any radical transformation takes place, he catches typhus and dies. His death completely braeks his parents. He is however soon forgotten by Akardy who has his own full life to live.
The death of Akardy, although with the family sentiments potrayed, and the role played by Akardy and Barazov's parents is painted masterfully by Ivan. Its a really good read. Would recommend it to everyone. Rating 9/10. Approx no of pages ~300
