This is a collection of stories by Ernest Hemingway. Most of the stories are really great, with some, especially if one is in a conducive mood, are strikingly brilliant/mind blowing. While I generally don't throw around such praise, I felt that some of the stories in this collection do deserve them. The book focuses on writing's strong point, the ability to build great characters, and allow us a look into their ideas/aspirations, personalities and the changes that they
undergo due to various events (character development). The conversations that people have in this book, the surprising lack of exposition on the part of the author, instead letting us figure things out through the character itself and the casual nonchalant everyday settings shows that the author doesn't need much else to work with, and is a testimony to his being at the apogee of his profession. The focus in several stories on the beauty of nature, be it through hunting big game
in Africa or Fishing in America/Europe or even the bull fighting and the primal satisfaction it gives us, is also a theme largely missing in most other books, but which Hemmingway makes even someone like me, who is largely indifferent and smug, feel like a bright shiny eyed pre teen filled with a sense of naive hope and longing. Given the need to be concise, the author doesn't focus on fully drawing out the potrait of a character, instead giving just a glimpse into their
life and mind, leaving several things unknown. But these characters surprisingly strike more depth than characters in most other novels, despite their having the luxury of several hundred pages to really flesh them out. 
Another great aspect of these stories are the way scenes are set, the several subtle things that are really needed to immerse the reader, and set his/her imagination ablaze are present most of the time. The thought processes/conversations proceed in a rather desultry manner, as it does most of the time in real life. 
While it is not necessarily a page turner, a significant number of stories did leave me rather breathless (methaphorically), which is rather rare. Approx no of pages 460. Rating 10/10.
