Flatland is a novel by Edwin Abbott. It is about a square in two dimensions discovering the third dimensions and the difficulty it has in comprehending the concept of a third dimension.
The novel is in the first person, with the square telling us the story. He begins by introducing the caste system in place with only regular figures being present, any irregularity in babies resulting in the babies being immediately destroyed, and the more sides a figure had, the higher up it was, and the more respect was it entittled to. The only irregular figures were isocoles triangles. The closer they were to the idea equilateral triangle, the better they were, and the less the measure of their different angle, the meaner. Women were almost lines, and nothing else. The more sides a person had, the smarter he was. Women were the lowest in the order, being meaner than the meanest isoceles triangle, since they had no sides at all and were just lines. The circles were practically the rulers and were really polygons with an extremely large number of sides. Every generation resulted in the birth of a figure with one more side, for equaliteral triangles and above, thus an equilateral triangle resulting in square progeny and squares resulting in pentagons and so on. Isoceles triangles generally were carefully bred, and resulting in progeny closer to equilateral triangles, and once an ideal equilateral triangle was born, it would be taken away from the parents and entered into the noble class. The meanest of the isoceles triangles having the sharpest angle were used as soldiers, and were nearly fatal, if touched with their sharper side.
Then the author describes the problem of seeing figures and identifying them, since in 2D one can only see lines. However each figure was luminous (light entering from the 3rd dimension, there being no light source in flatland, it was equally bright everywhere). So especially in presence of a fog, one could make out the difference in luminosities and infer which figure it was. Universities thought this seeing process to the chlidren of the nobles. The meaner people got by relying on touch to figure out which figure was which.
One day the square, our protagonist has a vision of him interacting with the king of 1D lineland. He tries to explain the second dimension to him, but is laughed at, and is not believed. Later the square has a vistor from 3D, a sphere, and initially the square thinks that the sphere is just a circle and talks respectfully. But he doesn't believe the circle's  claim of being a sphere. The sphere tries to convince the square by increasing and decreasing its size by moving in and out of flatland, and also touching the inside of the square. But the square just takes him for a magician or burgler, and tries to hold on to him and calls for help. The sphere, not wanting to bee seen by anyone else, exits flatland, and takes the square with him. The shows him his own flatland as seen from 3d, and shows him some other figurs in 3D as well. Soon the square starts thinking about even higher dimensions and begs the sphere to take him there. THe sphere tells him that there are no higher dimensions but is later convinced by the squares analogy argument. However he tells him its not in his power to go to a higher dimension.
Once back in flatland the circles knowing that once a millania someone is visited from 3D and to keep public order, issue a proclamation that anyone found claiming to have talked to someone from another world will be executed. So the square initially keeps quiet, trying only to convince his grandson. However he fails at that he decides to not say anything , thinking if he couldn't even convince his grandson, he wouldn't be able to convince anyone else. However he eventually gets excited and tells everyone and is kept in perpetual imprisonment by the circles.
The book was decent, but explained things in too much detail which came across as patronizing in some places. No one enjoys being talked down to, especially me.However it was nice and made me thinking about some aspects of dimensions that I hadnt previously thought about, especially the fact that just like a 3D figure can come into 2D, seemingly out of thin air, the same can happen from 4D. Its also interesting to think about the fact that although we are in 3D we are really in 4D with time being the fourth dimension, and if we can move through time, we could appear anywhere, from nowhere. The word appear itself losing meaning, once we start thinking about time as just a dimension. Maybe although we live in 4D its only our brain which sees things progressing unidirectionally at a constant rate in time, and we get the feeling of things being that way. A nice way to think about it would be in 4D space, say we are calculating the trajectory of a particle, subject to some constraints, one of which is a point through which the curve passes through. If we change the starting point from say a height of 5m to 10m, keeping the other constraints (laws of physics) the same, we'll get a different curve. Similarly if we change the point (x,y,z,t) to (x,y,z,t') we'll get another curve as well. This t' maybe be greater than or less than t. So whether we make a change in the 'future' or in the 'past' the particle's equation shall change. Another nice thing to think about was, in 2D if you have say stuff like a neuron passing across the entire length of an organism, them it will prevent communication between the two parts of the body. So Such organisms would be severely limited in their information procesing ability. Although we are much btter off in 3D, just imagine a 4D world, and think about the information processing capabilities of devices/creatures there. Everything would be so difference. Say our notion of consciousness needs some amount x of information processing with a tolerence for +-y. Y is sure to be much a small percentage of x. The gain in information processing from 2D->3D is almost infinitely more, and so it would be from 3D->4D. Just think about the possible existance of sentinance there, its literally beyond imagination (and I'm using literally correctly here). Rating 8/10. Approx number of pages ~120
