This is a book by Ernest Hemmingway. It is similar in its tone of pacifism and
the futility of war. It was a nice read, with great colorful characters. Yet,
it seemed to be missing something, which is the only thing that made me not
love it completely. It just didn't appeal to me directly although I couldn't
quite say why it was so.
The novel begins with an American in Spain, fighting in the civil war, in
support of the anti facists. He has been in spain for 10 years, and has adapted
Spain, and is passionate about it although in a more clinical way than some of
the others he fights next to. His name is Robert Jordan, and he is a dynamitter
but the people he has been sent to work with, Guerrilla's behind enemy lines
affectionately call him foreigner in spanish. He is charasmatic, and smart and
soon earns the trust of most of the people in the camp. The others smart person
in the camp, the leader, Pablo feels threatned and treats him badly. He has
been sent to blow up a bridge, during the attack, to prevent the enemy from
getting supplies and reinforcements during the attack. However Pablo feels that
Jordan cares only about his mission and not about the people in the camp, and
so won't hesitate to sacrifice them, and more importantly himself(pablo).
However in the end, people side with Jordan, and he carries the day. The attack
is supposed to happen in a few more days, so meanwhile Jordan sets about making
friends/ useful connections, and studying his people. At the same time, he also
finds himself falling in love with a victim of the war, a beautiful spanish
girl who had been raped by the enemy soldiers after watching her father
executed. Unsure about his success in his mission, and subconsciously
determined to live his life over the next few days, to the fullest, they
skip through the courting stages and jump into bed, and the heart of the
romance. His connections with the others from the camp is also very strong for
this very reason. Storeis are exchanged, stories of life altering events,
stories, whose plot is what lead most of the men and women in the camp to where
they are now. There is a casual roughness, and mistrust, and yet some kind of
deeper bond amongst the people who spend life in such close quarters, and who
expect to die at any moment.
    The few days before the mission are spent by Jordan, making love to Maria,
and talking to his fellow comrades, and planning compulsively for the mission,
issuing orders, and comtemplating his life. One sees the vast difference in
philosophy between the educated Jordan, who is infact a professor of Spanish,
and the local Guerrillas who have been peasants all their life. And yet here
they stand almost as equals, both of them committed to a single cause. Jordan
has commissioned some people to keep watch, and some others to take note of
the enemies movements. He soon learns that the enemy knows of the impending
attack by the rebel forces, which was supposed to be a surprise if it was to
have worked, and so he dispatches one of the men in the camp, with a message to
the general leading the attack, asking for it to be cancelled. However he does
not expect it to reach in time as its too late now. By this time, one of the
enemy soldiers happens upon the camp and is shot dead by Jordan. Later in the
day a neighbouring Guerrilla camp is found out and destroyed by over 100
soldiers. This leaves their camp gloomy. The attack is to take place the next
day and everyone is tense. Pablo, the camp leader, leaves off in the middle
of the night, with the detonators for the explosives. His woman, an ardent
backer of Jordan, in his internal struggle for power, makes him aware of the
situation. He is furious and loses control of his thinking abilites in his rage
but he soon brings himself under control and tries to make the best of the
situation. However Pablo returns soon, attributing his change of hearth to
loneliness felt after throwing the equpiiment in the river. However to make
appends he has brought the few extra men needed to increase their odds of
success in their mission, from the neighbouring camps. Jordan realizes that
Pablo only plans to use these men as pawns, in their escape, and does not mean
for them to live. However he is silent, and justifies himself by thinking that
who's to say whats right and wrong at a time like this.
    The following day the attack goes on as planned. However they suffer a few
initial casualties by the time the bridge is blown up. One person is killed
by the bridge when it is blown up as he has had to stay close, due to the
improvised bomb they had to make, in lieu of the loss of the explosives due to
Pablo. Jordan is indignant at this, and it takes him a while to regain his
composture. Meanwhile, they still have to escape, as they are still behind
enemy lines. They wait for Pablo's return. They hear shots fired, and Pablo
comes running. They then realize that Pablo has shot the men he had brought
with him as there aren't enough horses for all. Jordan seems unmoved by this.
They join Maria, who is waiting for them with the horses. Soon they are on the
move. However they have to cross a stretch, and are in the range of a tanker.
They try to make a run for it (using their horses) one by one. Everyone
successfully makes it except Jordan, who ends up getting crippled on account
of the horse landing on his leg. He realizes that his wound is fatal, and after
talking to maria and saying his goodbye, and waving them away, he waits, waits
for an enemy soldier to come, preferably an officer, so that he can at least
get one of them. He is against suicide at first, but it gets progressively
harder to hold on, as the pain gets worse and worse, after the adrenaline
passes away.
    His death seems almost inevitable for the story to have its full affect
about the horror that is war, where otherwise sane and intact men are given an
excuse to kill and main each other, and in fact even considered noble for doing
so. The story drives home its point beautifully, depicting even the usage of
the less well off, or the not so smart people as pawns, cannon fodder, as shown
by Pablo's usage of his recruits. Each character is well rounded, and has a
depth which makes them all the more real, and not jsut straw men concacted for
the sake of the story. The main character is especially well developed, and as
we see his thought process and motivation, and his actions, and see the
contrast, as well as his interaction with the others, it brings the story
together in a way that is very pleasing. The conclusion, the death of our
protagonist seems almost inevitable, and is the only thing that, at least I
felt was done for the sake of the story. The rest of it follows naturally
enough and doesn't seem contrived. Its really a beautiful piece of work, and
yet it had that something missing which is what prevents me from giving it
a perfect rating. A must read for everyone. Approx no of pages ~500. Rating 9/10.
