This book was a collection of stories by Nikolai Gogol and included
1) IVAN FYODOROVICH SHPONKA AND HIS AUNT
2) HOW IVAN IVANOVICH QUARRELLED WITH IVAN NIKIFOROVICH
3) NEVSKY PROSPECT
4) THE NOSE
5) THE OVERCOAT
6) DIARY OF A MADMAN
7) THE CARRIAGE
8) THE GOVERNMENT INSPECTOR

The stories themselves were delightful to read. They were refreshing in their
uniqueness, while at the same time revealing telling aspects of russian culture,
and its bereaucracy. The style was also very unique, and made the book all the
more enjoyable to read. Below I give a short summary of each story.
1) We are let into the mind of a typical middle class gentleman. He comes home
from the army, because his aunt tells him to, is gullible and lead around by his
nose while his aunt is shrewd and calculating. He is uncomfortable changeing his
way of life and prefers to remain a bachelor, even though he likes a girl. Since
the point of the story was to describe its characters and not tell its plot, I'll
leave it at that.
2) Here we are let into an another aspect of human nature, which takes offense
at certain specific things, and gets hung up over trivialities, all in the name
of honor or unforgiveable insults. Two gentleman neighbours who used to be the
best of friends know throughout their town for their friendship, quarell over
a small issue, which progressively gets bigger, as each of them continues to
take steps to ensure the other's destruction. They even take it up to the courts
to adress their differences, an amicable settlement and recouncillation seeming
impossible. The Judge, a close acquaintance of the two is mortified and tries to
get them to reconcile. However he is unsucessful and gives up. A few other important
personages in the town try and fail miserable as well. Finally after a few years,
the town decides to get them nito the same room and talk it out. However although
things look promising everything ends up getting that much worse in the end (this
scene was really nice to read and was exceptionally well written). The story ends
with their continuing fight, driven crazy out of their own silliness till one of
them dies.
3) Nevesky Prospect talks about a street and the kind of people who pass through
daily. It takes a time lapse view of the street analyzing the kind of people
passing through it on a given day. It is very telling about the authors views on
russian cities and the government. Eventually the story starts off with its plot
of a young guy, who having looked upon a true beauty, all other women paling in
comparisom, follows her home. She notices him and subtley invites him in by
encouraging his pursuit. However upong entering he finds that its a house of sin
and extravegance, and is mortified that such a precious creature can be in a place
like that. He practially runs out, his artists head with old ideas of good taking
a nasty shock. However he goes man with dreams about the woman, and decides that
he msut see her again, hopefully to convert her, and get her over to the good
side, building up her image and their possible future together in his mind.
However in reality things turn out very differently, and her scarcastic demenour
has a severe impace on him and he goes away disillusioned. He finally commits
suicide. Again, this is a very well written story, and does not play out like
a tragedy at all. The flow was natural, and the potrait of the street, the artist,
and the girl are all amazing.
4) The Nose was a non sensical story, about a medium level officer in the government
waking up one day and finding out that he has no nose. After that some rather
incredible ( in the sense of unbelievable) events unfold. This shows the playful
side of Gogal, and the nonchalant descriptions of the impossible are a delight
5) The overcoat is a rather sad story of a poor clerk, who is a rather meek man,
not fully normal, who is the butt of his office's jokes, respected and loved by
no one, who one day finding his overcoat in tatters, is forced to order a new
one. He manages to find the money for it, and waits for the overcoat dreaming
about it all that time. Finally when he gets it, he is really very happy, but
later that same day, in a poetic justice kind of way, it is stolen away on his
way back home. He kills himself after trying to find the coat, when his appeals
fall on deaf ears. He even comes back as a ghost to haunt the spot at which his
overcoat was stolen, snatching other people's overcoats. Excellent style.
6) Dairy of a madman, was surprisingly well written, in the sense that it balanced
being funny with sticking to its core aim of potraying the mind of a madman. It
starts off with a small clerk, who starts getting grander and grander, eventually
becoming a megalomaniac, and ending up in a madhouse. He finally goes fully crazy
under the illtreatment mete out to him at the madhouse and finally loses it completely.
7) In the Carriage, the man who overexagurates his own prowess, and property is
potrayed, with a rather poetical ending. A military regiment is in town, and upon
meeting its commander at a party, a man strikes up conversation with him, and invites
him over to his house for lunch. He also talks to him about a lot of things, on
of the topics including his carriage, upon which he heaps undue praise. However
returning home late, he falls into a deep slumber, from which he doesn't awaken
at his usual morning time. His wife lets him sleep in thinking he needs the rest.
However he has not told anyone of the arrival of the general, and so nothing has
been prepared. The general arrives a little prematurely, and the servant runs to
wake up his master. That's when he wakes up, with a terriable fright, and at a loss.
He finally decides not to recieve them, and asks his servants to tell them that he
was called away on urgent business. Meanwhile, he tries to make himself scare and
goes to hide in the barn. Thinking that they might come in to inspect the barn,
he gets into the same arriage that he was bragging about and hides there. Disappointed
at the carelessness of his host, the general decides to atleast take a look at the
much made of carriage. Thats when its wheeled out, and its owner found out.
8) The government inspector is a play, which potrays the higher ups in a municpal
society and administration, as a bunch of silly, obsequious to their superiors,
scoundrels to their inferious, opportunistic to their core and generally heartless
ruffians. The Mayor of a town, gets word that a government inspector might be arriving
to his province. He is terrified thinking that he shall be caught. He decides to
preemptively find him and get in his good graces, and also to fix up superficial
things so that everything looks good to an outsider. However he is mistaken and
there is no real inspector. The Mayor communicateas his suspicions to his circle,
and they are startled too, thinking they shall also get caught. He are constantly
on the lookout, and as seems inevitable, a couple of them mistake the first stranger
they see to be the inspector, mainly due to his mysterious behaviour. However the
man was actually just a broke bachelor on his way home from the city. The Mayor
takes it for a certainity that the man in question is the inspector, and is just
being coy and circumspect, in a lawyerly manner, and proceeds to treat him with
diffidence and show him around the beter parts of town. He even gives him money
which he takes to be a bribe, and invites him over to his house. Everyone, from the
judge to the inspector of schools, and the postmaster, fawns over him, and try
to get on his good side. Soon the man in question realizes that he his identity has
been mistaken and decides to play along, as he is enjoying the treatment, and the money
he is receiving. He also decides to make love to the wife and daugther of the Mayor.
His servant who is shrewd and wise, warns him to quit while he is ahead, and make
haste to get away from this place, before he gets caught. Finally the man proposes
to the Mayor's daughter, and tells them that he shall be leaving, but shall be
back the next day. However upon his departure, the postmaster, having opened and
read a letter addressed by the man in question to his friend in St Petersberg,
rushes over to the Mayor to inform him that they have been duped. The Mayor
is furious, and stands holding the letter in his hand.
This was quite well written, and its character portrayls, from the vain  gentleman,
to the obsequious beaucrat, who opresses the people and doesn't do the work, to
the shrewd servant, to the silly postmaster, and the vain wife, stupid daughter,
selfish judge etc, while built up to play roles, and almost deliberately made
into 2D characters, still had some depth about them, due to the realism, and made
the whole work quite an enjoyable read.

Thhis collection of stories of Gogol by Penguin Classics is a definite recommendation
on my part and is sure to be enjoyed by anyone who decides to pick it up. Approx
No of pages: 400 Rating: 8/10
be the inspector.
