This book by Johannathan Swift was rather entertaining in its own quaint way, but was a bit dry overall, and got tedious at points, and repetitive.
So the book starts off with the its protagonist going out to sea, but due to a storm or something, finds himself without the ship, which sinks. He manages to make his way to land, and then passes out. When he comes to, little people are all around him and they tie him down, and he is surprised and quite amused as well. The ratio between himself and the lilliputs is around 1:12. From them onwards he describes his stay there, along with all the associated politics. One thing I liked was that it wasn't a kid book, inspite of its fantastical elements, idk maybe that's how even serious books were during those days, but he doesn't tip toe around violence, or injustice like most marvel movies do. He also poses ethical questions, and they are mostly one sided and are decided for the reader by the author himself, which starts to get annoying, sometimes due to their exaggeration. After his capture, he tries to play nice, and gain favour in the eyes of the emperor. He soon learns their language which he is initially unfamiliar with, and eventually also learns their customs and their state of affairs, and here the author tries to show the decay which court life leads to amongst otherwise good men, due to the intrigues and political games which they are forced to play to survive. He also shows the king as a rather vain person, who considers himself better than everyone else, and hence expects unflinching loyalty, and servinile obedience. Gulliver soon gets entangaled in a war being fought between the two kingdoms, and out of gratitude to his host, helps him win a battle. However the king gets greedy and asks Gulliver to destroy all his enemies for him, which gulliver refuses to do, since it's against his principles to destroy people who have done him no harm, and actively help in enslaving a whole group of people to satisfy someone's ego. The king feels slighted and resents gulliver. Due to this and other reasons, the king is persuaded by a few of his courtiers to starve gulliver to death. Gulliver heras of this through a loyal friend of his, and decides to run away to the other kingdowm. He finds shelter for some time there, and eventually makes his own boat, and goes off, and is soon picked up by a passing ship and finds his way home to England. 
The author painstakingly describes the scenes, taking care to scale everything and describe in intricate detail, the interaction between the man mountain and the natives. This gets old real soon.
The author can't stay away from the sea, and sets out again on a quest somewhere. This time around, he goes by means of a boat, to get fresh water from an island, but the rest of the crew quickly desert him, and run away upon seeing a giant approaching them. Gulliver stranded on the beach, tries to hide from the gaint, and succeeds. However he soon realizes that the entire island is inhabited by giants, and that there is no getting past it. He is soon discovered by a worker in the farm, and is taken to the master. They master and his family are much amused by Gulliver. Here again the author describes everything in detail, to give readers a sense of the kind of interaction taht Gulliver had with his captors, mostly in relation to size. Again the ration is 12:1 but in the opposite sense. One incident of note, is the author describing the nipple of one of the natives to be extremely ugly due to the large deformities which appear apparent to the author, but which look normal on people of the same size as the author, due to their miniscule nature. The author forms a bond with the daughter of the master, and is cared to by her. Then the master starts making a show out of the author, and eventaully the queen hears of Gulliver and buys him from the master of the farm for a good price. Gulliver is the queen's favorite pet, and his court life is described in much detail. Here, the court appears a little better than the one in lilliput but not very much so. Gulliver is constantly battling for his life due to the enormous size of insects and birds, to whom he appears as prey. Finally one day, while out on the beach, an eagle takes his dollhouse of an abode, and flies away, and he is eventually dropped in the sea. Again a passing ship finds him soon after, and he makes it back to england. One incident of note in the authors court life is his descripting of the perversity of the favoured, most beautiful of the queens maidens, who took pleasure in 'innocent seeming' sensual stimulation by Gulliver. I think everyone were prudes back then.
The author ventures out into the sea again, and this time finds himself attacked by pirates, for some reason let him live and place him on a deserted island. Just when Gulliver starts thinking that his time has come, he spies a flying island coming towards him and hollers at them. Then eventually notice and come down, to pick him up. There he finds a strange race of people, who are so absorbed in their own thoughts as to be completely impervious to their surroundings, requiring physical stimulus in the form of being hit on the appropriate organ to get it to function properly, the nobility having dedicated people for the same. They are much into math and music, and seen highly cultured. But upon closer inspection they seem to be in an effette state, unable to do anything pragmatic, and slowly letting shitty ideas run amock and implementing them, because they seem more intellectual, but which in actuality is slowly leading to their decay and destruction. Gulliver meets one of the few remaining sane people who takes him to visit one of their universities, which is now full of idoits masquerading as geniuses, with silly ideas which won't work. Here onwards the author becomes super sarcastic, and starts describing some of the ideas in detail. Eventaully he finds out that they carry on trade with Japan, and manages to go there, and from there makes his way back to Europe and England. However before that, while waiting for the ship to Japan, he stays for some days in a village, the chief can bring back people from the dead, and to entertain  Gulliver, asks him if he would like to talk to anyone who was dead. Gulliver names a whole list of people, mostly ancient kings and philosophers, and stuff gets pretentious, and rather silly even. This descripting of the modernist universities reeks of the kind of 'bad people' described in Atlas shrugged, and even The Fountainhead.
For the last time, the author sets out, as captain of his own ship, and this time he is left on an island but his mutinying crew, who them make off with the ship. In the island humans have degenerated into an ape like species, vile and nasty. The horses are the masters, and they are the civilized ones. They seem quite surprised to see a human, behave rationally and seem able to speak. Gulliver soon learns their langugage, and is devoted to the horses, especially his master, who he considers the epitome of all that is good. He is disgusted by his own culture, and vows never to return. He is much taken with the horses philosophy of life, and here the author gets extremely sarcastic in describing the state of affairs back home, with lawyers, and rich people exploiting the poor, spoilt brats not doing anything productive, instead actively destroying people who are, and other things which don't make much sense. However after a few years, the horses determine to exterminate the ape like human species as they are nothing but a nuisance. They decide to casterate them so that after a generation they shall die out. Then its decided that the author can't stay there anymore, since although he is civilized he is still a Yahoo and so he should leave. The author leaves with a heavy heart, and even upon his return to civilization can barely stand humans as he now throughly despises them and all their vileness. 
Overall the book was average, not having the best writing style, but yet having some entertaining aspect, in terms of the story it tells, and the attitude towards life it potrays(that of its century which is the 18th one). But it does get tedious and boring and can't be read continously for hours on end. Rating 7/10. Approx no of pages 400.
