This is a book by Margaret Atwood. It had a decent storyline of a dystopian
society sometime in our near future, where the fundamentalists nutheads have
taken over, and people in America follow the bible, including the old testament
to the letter, as part of the law, this being a reaction, albeit an eccessive
one to the modern trends of casual sex, along with low birthrates probably due
to the chemicals we are exposed to on a daily basis. The story itself wasn't
all that great, although it had potential to be great. The writing wasn't very
powerful nor was it very moving, but it did give a fresh perspective on the
holocaust, especially the speech at the end which brings home the distinction
between talking about it, empathizing with it, and actually living it. But
overall, it wasn't a very memorable read, in terms of its writing, which is one
of the most important things for me in a book, although the story was fresh,
in the sense that it was differnet from the other dystopian books, I've read(
which is not all that much) in that it brings religion into it. It still had
the big brother aspect of it, and I'd like to read of a dystopia without that,
just to see another point of view.
So the story itself, has the protagonist, a woman, in Gilead, the name of the
society is a handmaid. Its her job to attend to her mistress, and more
importantly bare children to her commander, who happends to be important enough
to warrant/get one such as her. Only the top ranks are afforded this luxury.
This notion is taken directly from the bible, wherein similar practices abound.
In the story we follow June, the protagonist, through her life in Gilead. The
First all was quiet, and then the government was assicinated. The power was
taken by the military, who eventually became rulers, that was when they slowly
started changing things, first freezing the money of all women, followed by
making it illegal for women to work, and so on, slowly transitioning it so that
everything went back to things as they were in biblical times. Any protest was
met with fierce violence by the military, who rained death on even peaceful
protestors. Eventually things become accepted, and people grew too scared to
question them.
    June tried to flee with her husband, and child. However they are caught and
separated, June not knowing about the whereabouts of her husband, still hoping
that he's alive somewhere. Her life is routine. She can't trust anyone as there
are spies everywhere. She is trained along with her fellow handmaids at a camp.
Her best friend escapes. June doesn't know what has become of her. Finally she
is alloted to the hosue of a commander. After some time, the commander starts
sneaking her into his room at night, to talk to her and play games with her.
He also has souvenirs of the past in the form of magazines etc. Meanwhile her
partner, the handmaid who accomponies her on walks slowly starts gaining her
trust. She claims to work for the resistances, who slowly fight against the
present regime. She gives hope to June, and tries to recruit her. Once they go
to a ceremony wherein they lynch those who have sinned against Gilead. When she
goes on a doctor's visit, she is offered a chance at a pregnancy, the doctor
offering to impregnate her. He says that things will go better for her if she
gives birth, and also that her commander might be infertile. This statement
itself is blasphemony as it is always supposed to be the woman's fault. However
June doesn't have the nerve to take up his offer, and declines. Later on after
another handmaid gives birth, to a friend of Junes mistress's, June's mistress
is determined to have a child one way or another, and asks June to sleep with
their driver. Eventually this affair turns into a blind passion, and they throw
caution to the wind, and try to see each other at every possible opportunity.
Around this time, the commander, makes June dress up, and takes her to an
illegal strip club. There she meets her escaped friend and they talk. June
senses a resignation about her, which terrifies her. June's confidant, her
walking partner, has been found out and taken by the police. June gets a new
walking partner who informs her of this. Around that time, June's mistress
finds out about her sneaking around with her husband, and gets mad and mistrets
her. So the driver, who turns out to be a part of the rebel group, fakes her
being taken in for questioning, and tries to smuggle her to safety.
The novel ends with a lecture by a professor, a couple centuaries down the line
His offhand way of talking about it, striking a stark contrast to the rest of
the novel, in terms of the experiences, especially of June.
Overall it was an okay story. Surprisingly the tv show was better. That might
have been because, there were no deep thoughts or emotions in the book which
the show was unable to capture. Also surprisingly, the story in the show was
more well developed and had more characters. Approx no of pages ~350. Overall
rating 7/10.
