This is a book by Charles Dickens. It is almost a typical Dickens novel in flavour, although it is rather shorter than usual. The Dickens flair, in regards to word play and sentense structure is also very prominent. There is a lot of wit sprinkled around liberally, which oftentimes brought a smile to my face. However the actual plot and story felt a little lackluster. Another typical Dickens feature of this novel was the gross blatant exaggeration of the personality types of
characters which was, at least to me, more noticable in this novel than in his other works, and was as always handled masterfully (and in a witty manner).
The story starts off by introducing two middle age characters, who are obnoxiously pragmatic, and have bonded over their mutual obnoxicity and pragmaticism. One of them has a family while the other remains a bachelor. The family man has a daughter and a younger son. While he strives to train them according to his system, the unbridled personality types of the two kids prevents them from truly getting moulded into what their father desires. Eventually daughter gets
married to the bachelor friend of the father, and her brother becomes his new brother in laws apprentice. A chance accquaintance of the father, soon joins the ex bachelor in business, and is taken up with the daughter. They fall in love, but after a lot of emotional turmoil (which, at least on the guys side is handled very well by Dickens), ends up in nothing. Meanwhlie the son, working under his brother in law, has staged a bank robbery to pay his debts, and stolen money from the
bank after making an ex employee (who was fired for morally ambiguous reasons) an unwitting fall guy. Eventually he is found out, and leading up to the denoument, the family comes together to help him escape and the super pragmatic father learns emotion and sees the fault in his ways, becoming more of a romantic in the process. The bachelor on the other hand turns out to be a humbug, and is socially desereted while remaining financially well off.
One does not really read Dickens for the story. The scenes and build up to describing the states of characters are meaningful (if somewhat romantic), and sophisticated (even though I may disagree with the premises assumed). One thing that stands out to me is the way the daughters lover is potrayed, not as explictly evil but rather indifferent and bored. His mental progress through the night, while uncertain about his fate, also rang true. The ex employee and the relationship to his
kinda mistress and exwife were also played out very well (especially the buildups). The relationship between the Humbug bachelor and a lady whom he maintains was milked for all the sardonic criticism of victorian society and attitudes Dickens could muster up. Overall it was a great book, although some things were lacking. Approx no of pages: 280. Rating 9/10.
