This is a book by stephen king. Its a horror book and was apparently a best seller. It is a tad long, although I don't mind that as long as it has the story to justify the length. However the length of this book was mainly for character building and descriptive purposes, and that occasionally boring. However for the most parts it kept my interest and I felt invested in it. That's typically why I in general prefer long books to short ones, so that I get that sense of investment (same reason I prefer TV shows to movies). 
	I'll give the summary not in the format followed by the book, but in chronological order. During some year sometime in the 1950s in Derry, a town in Maine, a lot of people start dying, or going missing presumed dead, mostly children. Although the official claim is that it is a serial killer or a pedophile. And even though most Derry residents believe the claim, they know that its something else. However no one seems to be willing to acknowledge it. One day, bills brother george is killed on the street. This severely tramatizes bill. Meanwhile its the last day of school, and Ben, who's a 'little' overweight, is trying to get away from the bully Henry. However they soon catch up to him and Henry who is always a little crazy, starts carving stuff into his stomach. Thats when bill gets the will to fight back, and get knows him off, and falls off the side of the road. The Henry and his two helpers follow him down. Ben realizing that now Henry is really pissed, continues the fight, and gets away and hides. Henry furious at having lost Ben, happens upon Ben and Eddie and wents his anger on them. Eventually Ben comes out of hiding, and helps Eddie who has had an asthma attack, by staying with him while Bill gets his inhaler. Bill goes off on his super fast bike and gets the inhaler in seemingly impossible time. Eventually Eddie is alright. Ben who has never had friends till now, feels a connection with the two of them. The invite him over to play at the Barrens. 
	They get together the next time, and start making a dam in the barrnes. Although the others haven't got a clue on how to proceed, ben seems to know exactly what to do. He's a natural, and soon with the help of Richie and Stan, who arrive on scene, they get to work, and are pretty successful in blocking up a stream, using junk that they find around the place. The dam is so effective that it starts causing problems in the drainage system, and soon a cop arrives to check out if any of the drains leading to the streams have been backed up. However upon seeing the dam he is quite surprised with the skill of the boys. He lets them off easy after giving them a small chiding. Ben and Richie make plans to go to a movie. On his way to the movie Richie runs into Beverly, his classmate from school(they are all 11) and he invites her over. He offers to pay for her ticket and is surprised with himself. All of a sudden he starts realizing that Bev is pretty. Ben who is madly in love with Bev, is flabergasted at seeing her at the movie, and starts blushing. Soon Ben becomes a part of their group, which now totals six. Meanwhile the string of murders and disappearances continues.
	One day, while the group is hanging out in the Barrens, everyone starts talking about what they have experienced. Bill takes the lead, with his brother George, and the clown which killed him. Then the others join in, with their own stories. Bev hears voices in the drains, mocking her, terrifying voices of people she knew, now dead a victim of the derry killings. Richie has a horrifying run in at the bird bath. He enters the door under the birdbath, and he is almost drawn further and further in. Eventually the door closes, and he can't get out. Then he starts hearing the voices of the dead, and he can almost sense the clown coming up to him. However suddenly he starts thinking of the birds in his birdbook, and the door which was firmly shut opens up on its own accord and he runs out. Eddie runs into a leper, and the next time in the same area, he runs into the leaper in the form of the clown. Ben see's the clown on his way home from school on a chilly evening. The baloons held out by the clown towards him, into the wind. This sticks with him, and he runs away. Stan has a similar experience, but is unwilling to share at first. After this they all become very close, almsot as though they are drawn by fate.
	Henry hates the nigger, Mike. This is mainly becaues of his father's relation to Mikes father. So one day, when he sees Mike walking down a street, he starts chasing him. Mike being faster, outruns them and runs in the group at the Barrens. He begs them to protect him. The six of them under the leadership of big bill step up, and take stones and start pelting the five man group of Henry with stones. Being taken in by surprise and having followed henry half heartedly, two of them quit, and soon the rest are overwhelmed. Mike thanks them and he also becomes a part of the group. Now with all seven present, the circle feels complete. They all tell their stories, and mike adds his to the mix. They also tell him about the experience that bill and richie had with the photo in bill's house. That makes Mike remember that he's seen Pennywise the clown before, and promises to get the photo book of his dad the next time they meet. Through it they find out that IT has been plaguing Derry for hundreds of years, and that it operates in 27 year cycles. They then decide to take the fight to it. Before doing so, the carry out the ritual of the Chud. Through it two of them have a vision of the event when IT first came to earth. Through that vision they all understand how powerfulf it truly is. They decide that the way to stop it is through the use of sliver bullets. However the decide to go with slugs, and a caterpiller. Bev is meant to shoot it down. Ben prepares the two silver slugs, and they make their way to the hosue of the leper. They start getting visions, and reality itself becoems distorted. However they finally make it to the toilet of the house, and that's when it bursts out through the toilet via the drain pipes. For a moment they see its true form, before it puts on the guise of the werewolf. Bev misses the first shot, but gets it in the second try. They all start asking her to kill it, and IT terrified for the first time in its life, surprised at being hurt, runs away, and their bluff works. Then one day IT decides to fight back, and it convinces Henry to kill them. They manage to get chased intno the drains by henry. Thats when bill realizes that this is the final faceoff moment. He decides to push forward, and go all the way to its lair and fight it head on. Richie seems to know the way almost intutively. They finally enter its liar through a door, which is always open. Then they see it as a spider.
	Meanwhile Henry and his friends have been killed by IT in the share of frankenstien. It starts playing psychological games with them, showing each person what they fear most. However they fight it off, but making fun of it and mocking it. Finally Bill rushes toward the spider form. It rushes towards him as well, but in the last moment it rears up and Bill and the spider engage in a ritualistic face off. The spider tries to show bill the deadlights which is sure to kill him, since the human mind can't comprehend it. However he meets the turtle, who gives him the clue as to how to fight back. Bill hurts IT bad enough so that it runs off and goes into hiding. The others don't fall, thinking that its dead and get out of that place, since the spider webs starat collapsing. Now that their job is done, the magic starts wearing off, and richie can't find the way out. Bev has sex with all of them, and that ties them togehter as a group. Now they find their way out. Eventually life takes them in different directions, and something causes them to forget all about this incident. 
	Everyone moves out of Derry, except Mike who stays back. Nearly 27 yearas later, the killings start again. Mike initially doesn't want to believe that IT has come back, but after around 10 murders or so, he finally decides that IT is back, no point denying it, and so he calls the others and asks them to come back as per their pact. Everyone feels, almost drawn back, almsot as if they don't have choice. Stan unable to bear the strain, and probably because he remembers too much at once, Stan always the weak one, offs himself in his tub, a few minutes after Mike's call. The others however make their way back, despite their loved one's frightened entreaties to stay, or atleast to explain stuff to them. Bev has it the worst, as her abusive husband, tries to 'discipline' her. However for the first time in their marriage, and much to his surprise, she fights back, and severely wounds him. He is enraged and beats up Bev's friend to find out where she is and follows her to Derry. Bill's wife, also concerned for his safety, follows him back to Derry. 
	Once back in Derry, the group, now only six, start remembering their childhood, bit by bit, as opening the floodgates all at once, might make them go crazy, or maybe even be fatal. They meet for dinner, and size each other up, and there is still that sense of belonging amongst them. Each quickly falls back into the roles they played as children, regardless or the changes that growing into adults had brought upon them. They also start exchanging their modern life stories. Bev is initially a little dishonest. Ben who is now, not fat anymore, relates how he  finally decided to lose his excess weight. And they have a jolly good time. Until the fortune cookies come, and then IT changes them into things that they fear most, leaving them feel disgusted and sick inside. 
	Each of them split up, and upon mike's suggestion spend the day roaming around derry, letting them go whereever their feet take them. Almsot all of them have a run in with IT, who keeps encouraging them to go back, taunting them with Stan's death, and threatening them. This actually gives them courage as it shows them that they have it frightened. Bill finds silver and takes it back to Mikes house. That night they all get together at Mike's place, and talk. Most of their memories have come back, except their time at IT's lair. After dinner, IT makes its appearance, and leaves them all spooked. 
	They walk back to their rooms. Bev and Bill hook up. Meanwhile Henry has escaped his asylum with the help of the voice from the Moon. He makes his way to the library and kills Mike. He then goes to the hotel, and tries to kill Richie. However Richie manages to come out on top, and it is henry who is killed. He then calls the others and they all decide to keep it a secret. Having lost its only ally who is alive, IT hires a new helper, Bev's husband. It exploits his rage, and uses it to bring him under its control. He first kidnaps Bill's wife, and drags her to its lair. 
	The others decide to attack it head on, as that's the only way to get it over with. They head back down the sewers. This time around, they face similar obstacles. Finally they enter its liar. Bill takes it head on. However this time around IT is confident of its victory. The turtle is dead. Finding this out, Bill panics and IT gets the upper hand, and continues to drag him into the deadlights. But just then, Richie steps forward and attacks it. He starts making jokes, and the starts shrieking in pain. Soon the two of them start to make short work of it. Eddie goes to help them, and gets his arm bitten off, and he dies. But because of his intervention, Bill and Richie come back, and IT takes off running, dripping its black blood everywhere. But this time around Bill and Richie follow it to finish the job. It scatters its eggs everywhere. But Ben makes short work of them. Bill and Richie come back after killing IT. They then make their way back to the surface.
	During their epic fight, there was a monstrous storm outside, and a part of Derry collapses. Hence they don't get lost this time around, but instead make their way up through the collapsed road. They eventually start to forget the events that had happened. Each person goes their own way, except Ben and Bev who stay together. They soon start forgetting everything that happened. Audra, Bill's wife, who was almost brain dead, as a result of seeing IT's deadlights, makes a recovery after a ride on silver.
	The book was okayish, would recommend it to passtime and for the love of the physical process of reading, without paying too much attention. Approx number of pages ~1380. Rating 8/10
