This book by Thomas Hardy was not one of his best works. I'm usually a huge fan
but this was a let down, mostly because, while not being bad, didn't live up to
my high expectations.
We follow Jude, an orphan, who is adapted by his aunt, and dreams of being
a learned man and goign to college, at the nearest city, Chrismister (or something)
which is famed for training (some functionaries of the church). He strives hard
towards his goal, studying obscure texts for nearly a decade, all from his own
violation. But he gets entrapted by the naive scheming of a woman in his village.
He ends up marrying her, but they soon part ways, and Jude realizes the full
extent of her sleaziness. He is initially disheartened, but soon moves to
his dream city, and tries to continue his studies. There he obtains work as a
stone mason, carrying out repairs, carrying out studies in his free time. He decides
to pay a visit to his cousin Sue, with whom he is quite taken up, without having
even met her, but having seen her likeness via a photo at his aunts. He harmless
stalks her for a few months, but finally decides to make her acquaintance upon
receiving a letter from her inviting the same. He almost immediately falls in love
with her but is in deniel initally, and is also held back by the fact that
he is married. However he tries to help her in her endeavours and gets her a
position at a school, through his school teacher, who was his inspiration to
come to this place and follow the road he has chosen.
Jude tries supressing his feelings for her, but they start flirting, despite her
getting engaged to the school master of Jude's who gave her the job. It starts
out innocent, but they can't help themselves, and although they restrain it
physically, they are drawn together like two animals seeking comfort in each
other. Eventually Sue decides to marry the school master, but almost immediately
regrets her decision and asks his permission to come away to Jude. Her magnanimous
husband, after deep thought for a few days, seeing how bad she feels, decides to
let her go. Jude and Sue now live together, and Sue initially forbids anything
physical between them. Soon Sue and Jude divorce their spouses. They also have
kids but for some, almost superstitious reason, dont get married. They spend
a few pleasent years together, but soon scandal follows them wherever they go
on account of their not being married, and they are poverty stricken. And yet
their as yet undiminished love  keeps them happy. But one day, Jude's child with
his first wife, upon having a conversation with the way too frank Sue, decides
taht its the childrens fault for all their difficulties and kills Jude's and Sue's
children, before hanging himself. This completely wreaks their relationship,
with Sue blaming herself, and later going off the rails, from a calm rational,
skeptic almost atheist, who is cleavered that Jude, despite his erudition,
into a hysterical superstitious peasant like woman. She breaks off all contact
with Jude and returns to her first husband, thinking that that's the right thing
to do, despite being miserable with him (through no fault of his). In the end
Jude too goes back to his wife (or rather his wife brings him back to her) and
he ends up dying a premature death, a few years later.
Writing the summary, and reminiscing about the characters quirks and idiosyncracies,
especially that of Jude and Sue has changed my mind about the quality of this
work. My initial reaction was with respect to the lack of Hardy's classic
writing style with his striking descriptions of nature or some very memorable
scene, but the characters and their development in this book, along with the
emotions played out, and the scenes enacted, especially Sue, who is the real
protagonist, with Jude being quite plebian when compared with her, makes it
a one of a kind novel. While not very entertaining, I would still recommend it
to people, there is a lot one can take away from it, and I don't say that about
all novels. Approx no of pages ~400. Rating 9/10.
