This is a novel by Murakami. He seems to be famous mostly for his unique style
of writing, with plots that underwhelm due to their anticlimatic nature. A good
climax is not necessary for a novel of substance, but his works aren't really
works of substance. They do have entertainment value with a few apt observations
thrown in here and there, which still don't make up for the overtly emo theme
that is the constant backdrop to this novel. He is also probably popular for being
casual edgy, which, since it wasn't really edgy for me, I was indifferent to.
Probably anoher aspect contributing towards Murakami's popularity is the fact
that there is that element of magic in it, a little more magicy than Gabriel
Marquez, but which is generally nice. But this particular novel butchered the
mysticism aspect, but not really following through with the ideas it presented,
although some would argue that's the point, it really didn't do it for me.
There are two main characters, the narrative alternating between the two, with
a few interjections here and there to provide context. Kafka, a 15 year old, who
appears older, runs away from his single parent home, upon having a disagreement
with his father. He seems drawn by desntiy. He has a very strict idea about how
to live life, and sticks to it. He runs off to a far off district, where he believes
that no one will find him. Meanwhile Nakata, an old man who has lost his reason
after a mysterious illness during his childhood, who is in the same district as
Kafka's old home, is on the search for a particular cat. He makes enquiries about
it amongst the local cats, and finally, after much searching, finds some information.
However, he is summoned by Johnie Walker who has been killing that cats, and
asks to be killed himself, which Nakata ends up doing in an uncontrollable fit.
However it turns out that it was Kafka, who was controlling Nakata through a dream
and was fullfilling a prophesy by killing his own father, who is actually Johnie
Walker. Now Nakata also makes his way towards the same district, to accomplish
some purpose which is drawing him there. On the way he meest a truck driver
 with whom he teams up, and they both head to their destination. Kafka has been
 living a relatively peaceful life now having settled in at the library.
He rapes his sister in a dream, has sex with his mother, who considers him
a reincarnation of her former lover, and is deeply in love with her. However
upon finding out that the police are onto him, seeking to question him regarding
his fathers death, he is sent off into the woods by a newly accquired friend.
There he ends up finding some immortal MIA soldiers from WW2, who lead him
to a village through a portan that was opened by Nakata. He decides that it is
not for him, and comes back. Nakata passes away. His companian closes the portal
again.
I dont really feel like writing a summary, because the plot is rather incoherent,
and is not really all that captivating. Nor does the writing style make up for
it. I wont recommend it as a fun/captivating read.
Approx no of pages~600. Rating 7/10.
