This is a book by JRR Tolkien. It is an epic, which follows the advenctures of
the ring bearer on his quest to destroy the ring of power. Its now a cult classic
and has a huge following, mostly well deserved. However its writing seemed to
suggest a target audience of people in their early teens. That being said, one
of its main selling points is the fully immersive writing, and the unique style,
which makes it quite memorable. This was my second reading of the book, and while
I remember most of the main plot points, I had forgotten some of the smaller ones
(must have been close to 4 years since I last read it). So it was still enjoyable
and I didn't find it dull, in fact finishing it in only six days, averaging 220
pages a day. Although more focus is given to the journey, resulting in much less
story per line, as compared to the hobbit, its length makes you involved in the
characters, and form closer ties with them, and so on the whole I'd definitely
prefer a bigger book.
The one thing that I didn't like about it was the black and white, good and evil
scene. Before people say that it is nuanced, and that it is power that corrupts
with Gandalf even saying that Sauran used to be good and great, the fact is, it
ends up in a good guy bad guy theme, which is one of the main reasons that I
feel it was written for someone in their early teens, just before the angsty phase.
Another aspect which makes me feel its target demorgraphic was not adults is the
giving of the ring to a perfectly mediocere creature, a hobbit, wherein the lesson
is that everything has value, and heart matters. No it fucking does not, an elf
is a total badass, as are ents and wizards, hobbits are nothing. It felt more like
something someone would say to appeal to 12 year old kid.
BIlbo finds a ring on his adventure, and ends up keeping it with him, using it
every so often. This results in his life being prolonged unnaturally long, but
eventually he gives it up to Frodo, is heir. Eventually Gandalf realizes that
the ring is not trivial piece of magic, but the most powerful ring every created,
with the power to decide the fate of the entire middle earth. Frodo is supposed
to set out with the ring to riverndell. He sells his place, and upon the pretext
of moving to the nearby ... the packs up with the help of a few of his friends
and leaves. However he is pursued by the black riders, missing them only by a few
hours. After much struggle, they reach their destination, and Frodo decides to
slip off unnoticed in the night, from his new home. However his friends are
onto him and they convience him, through their loyalty etc, to let them tag along.
The company, now 4 in number, Frodo, Sam(his servant), Merry and Pippin set off.
The are supposed to go to Riverdell where they will get further instructions.
To avoid the Black riders, they decide to risk going through the forsest, where
the very trees have grown evil and are known to kill any creature passing through
at night. They eventually get lsot, and finally start to feel a sudden drowsiness
upon them. Eventually they nod off, and two of them are almost absorbed/eaten by
the trees. Meanwhile the others try to free them, and shout for help. THats when
Tom Bombadil shows up and saves the day. THey accompy him to his house and spend
a magical few days there, but soon leave reluctantly leave as they have a mission
to accomplish. The ring has no effect on Tom, as he is very old, much older than
Sauran can possible imagine. He is indifferent to it, and laughs it off. Upon
setting out, the hobbits, end up in trouble again the same night as they are
accousted by a bunch of ... Frodo sings a song calling Tom to them, and he
again swoops in and saves the day. He then safely sees them off his land, and wishes
them the best of luck. The company are now at Bree, at the prancing pony. There
they make a rukus and give themselves away. But Strider saves them and offers them
his assistance. Frodo also receives a delayed letter of Gandalf's telling them
what to do, and asking them to seek the assistance of Strider. So the acquiese
and let him lead them. The room they are supposed to be in is attacked by the
black riders at night. The hobbits set out early in the morning and Strider
leads them off the main road, so as to throw off the night riders. They make
their way, wary of finishing their supplies too soon. The threat of the black
riders grows stronger and stronger upon them. Eventually they attack, at night,
but Frodo puts on the ring and stabs their king. He is also pierced by blade,
and falls down. The black riders leave off, confident that Frodo shall soon be
in their control, because of his wound. However Frodo perseveres and hold off
against them, although his wound is almost fatal. The company now hurries along
eager to get to Riverdell and heal Frodo. They meet an elf lord, a friend of
Striders, and are glad, and accompany him. However they are again accousted by
the black riders, and Frodo on the elf's horse makes a break for it. He gets
across the river, and the river then washes the black riders following him away,
due to the Wizardary of gandalf.
    Frodo wakes up in Riverdell, almost healed of his wound, after a deep sleep
of a few days. There he meets Bilbo, and the company indulges itself in the elfs
parties and merry making. Soon a council is called, with a representative of each
major species, elves, men, dwarves and wizards. They decide that the only thing
possible, which has the added advantage of being unpredictable to the enemy, is
to destroy the ring, right under the enemy's nose, at mount doom. Frodo is given
the task of the ring bearer. The company set out, with a premonition of bad things
to come. They try crossing the mountains by climbing over them, but are beat
back by seemingly deliberate bad weather. However, not to be daunted, Gandalf
decides to take them through Moria, the ancient dwarf city, now deserted, and
spoken of only in stories. The enter, but are soon beset by orcs. Just as they
think they are clear, a balrog attacks them, taking gandalf down with it. The
others make it, but are devastated by the blow of losing Gandalf. Strider now
becomes the leader, and they follow him. They make it to Galaderial's land after
and rest there for some time, to get their energy back. Once they leave, they
soon reach a point at which they must decide on the course to take. While everyone
is refecting on the choices in front of them, Boromir tries to get the ring from
Frodo. This decides Frodo to go to mount doom alone and destroy the ring. However
Sam finds out his plan and makes Frodo take him along. The rest of the band is
soon best by orcs, and Boromir is killed and the other two hobbits are taken
captive. Gimili, Legolas and Strider decide to try to save the two hobbits, and
leave Frodo and Sam to their task.
The orcs pace is too much for the three, and they soon give up hope of catching
up. But then they meet a party from the horse land of Rohan, who although initially
suspicious, gives them news about their encounter, and eventual destruction of
the orc party, and also says that they didn't find any hobbits amongst them.
However the three decide to go there and check the place to make sure, but
don't anything promising initially. However after some time, they happen upon
a sign that the hobits made it out into the forest alive. They decide to pursue
the hobbits into the forest, but eventually end up meeting Gandalf, who turns
out has not died, but has instead metamorphosed into Gandalf the white. He
tells them that the hobbits are safe, although out of their reach, and directs
them into another quest. The four of them ride on to Rohan, and free the king
from the magic of Saruman, who has been whispering in his ear, and controlling
him through wormtongue. After that they convince Rohan to ride to war against
Saruman. The king, with his new found vitality, leads the host. However their
eager war cry soon is snuffed out upon beholding the vast hordes of Saruman.
They make it to a fort, and try to hold it, hoping to last out the night. Just
when everything seems dire, dawn shows up, and brings with it, help from the ents.
Saruman's army is thrown into fear and chaos, and is soon destroyed. The king
and a few select company decides to go on to Saruman's fortress. But upon
arriving there, they see that everything has already been taken care of by the ents
and that Saruman has been made a prisoner in his own tower. The Ents with Merry
and Pippin have destroyed Saruman. Meanwhile Frodo and Sam continue their dreary
journey towards mount doom. The soon catch Golum following them, and make him
their guide against Sam's better judgement. After much hardship they reach the
games of Mordor. But then golum convinces them to instead go through a secrect
passage to which he is privy, as going through the main gates is sure to get them
caught. On the way to the passage, they run into a band of men from the city
of Gondor. There they inform the leader Faramir a part of their plan, leaving
him to infer the rest, and then continue on towards their goal. Gollum leads
them into a dark cave. There a spider creature older than Sauran lurks, eating
travellers passing through. However San finishes off the creature in a rage of
fury after it poisons Frodo. Sam takes leave of Frodo, relieving him of the ring,
thinking him to be dead. However he later hears an orc band, carrying Frodo away,
and learns that Frodo has only passed out. The Orcs kill each other off, due
to an argument, giving Sam a chance to finish off the remaining few, and save
Frodo. The two then continue their journey to Mount doom, through the land of
Modor, having now gained entry into it.
Meanwhile the first wave of Sauron attacks the city of Gondor. Just as the battle
is about to turn, the riders of Rohan come to Gondor's aide. When they too are
about to be overcome, Strider rides in with his ghost army to save day. With severe
casualties on both sides, the men of Gondor have won the battle. However they
know that this wave, which nearly destroyed them, was just a test, and the main
battle lay in front of them, the enemy having not relealed his true might. Upon
winning the battle, Gandalf calls the main leaders to him, and councils them to
immediately march to Mordor, to provide covert to Frodo and his quest but drawing
the attention of Sauran on themselves. Everyone concedes, and they settle upon
marching on Modor with a measely host of around seven thousand.
The plan works, and Sam and Frodo finally make it to mount doom, without being
found out. But near the end, Frodo loses control, and claims possession of the
ring for himself. But at that moment, Gollum, bites his finger off, with the
intention of claiming the ring himself, but falls to his doom into the volcano.
Gandalf sends out a bunch of eagles to rescue the two hobbits.
Finally all is right, atleast for now on middle earth, and the hobbits headback
to their beloved shire. However they find it much changed, for the worse, due
to Saruman, but they soon set him to rights, and try to bring things back to
the way they were.
Everyone continues on with their interrupted lives, with Sam even marrying, but
Frodo is not at peace. He finally decides to join the Elves of Elrond on their
journey to the sea, and beyond, and the other hobbits in their company accompany
him till the sea shore, where they pass through a poignant parting.
And so ends the lord of the rings, a truly immersive book, enjoyable, making
you root for the characters, although identifying with them is a little hard,
as their personalities are 2D and not based on reality. Its main selling point
being immersiveness, and that being all that a fantasy book should satisfy, I
quite loved it, although reading it in between reading other great books (Man
and Superman, war and peace, and immediately after, Dune) made it lose some of
its charms in comparison. Definitely enjoyed it more the second time than the first.
Rating 9/10. Approx no of pages ~1300.

