This is a book by Gabriel Gracia Marquez. It follws the life of three people, one
woman and two men, right from their teens upto the end of their life. The novel
opens with the three main characters in their twilight years, and then deals with
their childhood through reminiscence of the two surviving characters. This angle
made the feel of the story completely different, as we already know the outcome,
and are just being told how we got there. While generic love stories are full of
hope and aspirations, this had a more poignant aspect, since we have already met
the characters at an old age, and so taht feeling of good things to come, and
the happily ever after, which can only exist in ones mind, and never in actuality,
regardless of how good one has it, is lost here. And that might have been the
point. This book was deeply moving, in its own way, as it made me ponder over,
what makes life worth living. One of the characters, makes it his life's mission
to win back his love, and so he tries to be successful. His whole life is based
on finally getting back his love.
There are three main characters, Florentine, Urbino and Fermina. While still very
young Florentine declares his love for Fermina, after just looking at her, falling
into a deep passion, which makes him literally sick with anxiety and apprehension.
While still young Fermina is taken up with the idea and loves him back. However
after a short separation and upon growing older and more mature she realizes that
she does'nt really love him, and is surprised taht she ever thought that she did.
Later she marries well, marrying Urbino, one of the most eligible bachelors of his
time. They are quite happy together most of the time, although they do occasionally
fight, and then its really bad. And so Fermina almost forgets her first love,
but Florentine does not. He still pines away for her, taking every major decision
with the aim of reaching his goal, of finally being with her, once her husband dies.
He just belives taht he shall die before either her of himself, and that after
that they can be happy together. Meanwhile he tries to attain a strong position
so that he can receive her, and meanwhile be near her at a similar level of
society. Meanwhile almost half a centuary later, the husband Urbino dies. Then
the two old lovers rekindle their spark, and spend their last few days together.
The book was very powerful, in that it did what good books are supposed to do,
leave an impact. And that this book definitely did, making me question the purpose
of life, albeit not in the way intended, but still, the introspection is what matters.
The author is a great writer, and while 100 years of solitude was better in some
aspects, especially the caveliar attitude towards magic, this book had its own
advantages. And that distinctive magical feel, something akin to the magic of folklore
is associated with his books, which is what makes them so great. A must read.
Rating 9/10. Approx number of pages 350


