This is a book by Gustave Flaubert. It was an okay read and didn't quite hit that spot that other novels have. Yet in analyzing its theme, and the people involved, there is more character than just a black and white view of the world would allow, although more could be desired.
A young boy, born to a disfunctional family, with a drunk and vain father and doting mother, who is a tad over controlling, eventually becomes a doctor, and marries for money. However it turns out that his wife doesn't have all the money that was expected of her. He is a simple man, almost a child and doesn't resent her for it. Once when he goes to treat a landowner in a neighbouring village, he meets his daughter and is taken up with her. However since he is married, he doesn't act towards his affection, although he does continue to visit them frequently even after her father is cured. His wife soon dies, and after genuine morning for a few months, he begins courting the beautiful girl. THey soon get married, and she is madame bovary. She is still quite young, and hasn't experienced life. He is very loving towards her, and she starts feeling stifled. SHe starts to yaera for more, feeling pent up in the village atmosphere, with next to no society and culture. Once, when she goes to a party thrown by some aristocrat, she realizes how much she is missing out on, and from that point onwards she begins resenting/despising charlers, her husband, for not being fit enough to provide her with such entertainment. They eventually move to a new village to practice. She forms an attachment to a clerk of one of the chemists. THe feelling is reciprocated, but neither of them act on it from a strong sense of propriety. He goes to Paris to study, and she soon forgets him. 
Meanwhile another man enters her life. He is rich and charming. He is also proficient in the wooing of woman, having been a womanizer for qutie some time. Looking at Madame Bovary's beauty, he is determined to posses her. He finds it quite easy to start the affair, since all her pent up desire and longing for something more, and also for compliments makes her an all too willing companian. In the beginning every now and then she gets compuctions regarding her behaviour, but they soon give way to an extremely passionate affair, full of lust and emotion. Eventually he starts growing weary of her clingness and desperation. However he still loves her. She tries to get him to run away with her. He promises, but them back outs in the last moment, as he never meant to see it through. This has a profound impact on her, and she goes sick for a few months, and is extremely frail.
Charles is quite torn up about her health, and acts upon suggestions to take her to own to distract her and help her recuperae. They go to the theater, and there she runs into the clerk. Charles is still in the dark about the affair. When they are alone the clerk declares his love for her, and she for him. There begins another passionat affair. She keeps going to town to see him. She almost gets caught but by now she is reckless. After some time they grow weary of each other, but still continue from habit. She soon racks up a large debt, to support her lifestyle, and when all her bills finally come due, she becomes desparate, and tries getting money from her lovers. When they fail her, she commits suicide. Charlers, and both of her lovers are quite broken up a about this. Charles takes it especially badly. He finally finds out about the affair, because of the letters in her drawer. He dies soon after. The clerk is also deeply affected by her death.
A few traits of Madame Bovary and her lovers, and the simplicity of charlers were dipicted quite nice. Yet other parts were rather dull, and seemed to me, highly exaggerated. Approx no of pages~380. Rating 7/10.
