This is a book by George Bernard Shaw. Its perfect in almost every way. I
immediately fell in love with the author, just reading a letter he had written,
which was a preable to the book, and the book does not disappoint. Its actually
a play, and is written masterfully, leaving me with an embarassed blush on my
face. The word play is really something else, and is one of the best features
of the book. The only other comedy play I'd rather other than this was the
importance of being earnest by Oscar Wilde, and that was one of my favourite
writings as well, but this far surpasses it, be it in terms of plot or the writers
skill with words, and witticisms.
The play opens with a few members of the British aristocracy in the early 20th
century. One is Tanner (Who is easily the protagonist), along with two women,
and two other men, one older than Tanner and the other, Tavy, his contemporary.
One of the women, Ann, has had her father pass away recently. Tavy is her self
proclaimed admirer and believes himself to be deeply in love with her. Tanner
on the other hand feels that he sees her for who she is and distrusts her, but
yet stays close. He has now been appointed a fellow guardian of Ann, upon her
father's passing. Then Violet, the other major woman, Tavy's sister, is married
in secrect. While people are freaking out about this, Tanner decides to go away
before Ann entraps him, and is driven away by his Chauffer. However they both
get captured by a gang, who are known for kidnapping rich people for ransom,
the leader fancying himself a modern Robin Wood. At this point, for some reason
the play shifts to a converstion amonst a bunch of people in hell, including the
devil himself. This is some of the funniest and most insightful parts of the play
and was one of its main attractions, allowing the author to showcase his mastery
over words or rather forming of sentences, as well as his well thought out views
on life which he presents in a playful manner. Afterwards we come back to the main
story (after a detour of about 60 pages), Tanner and the gang leader M make friends,
and Tanner is let go. Meanwhile Violet's secret marriage and her husband
are made known due to the unexpected arrival of Violet's father in law.
Finally Ann gets Tanner to realize his love for her, and throught their dialogue
I hard a hard to get rid of smirk on my face, and is again one of the best part
of the novel.
The revolutionist's handbook follows this, and it has some nice witticisms, and
is more ironic than serious, as was intended. Yet it gives us an insight into
the Tanner character and probably the author's views on things as well, which
at least to me (I'm fairly ignorant on this topic) felt rather advanced for the
time.
Overall its a great read, and I would definitely recommend it everyone, although
not sure everyone will derive the same pleasure that I did. Definitely one
of my all time favourites. Approx no of pages: 320. Rating 10/10
