This is book by Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman. It is a non fiction book, and deals mostly with analyzing the effectiveness of the US media, and largely draws the conclusion that despite being left to themselves and being given freedom, market forces and several natural barriors tend to drive the media, even in a legally free country like the US, to behave like State run media. His recommendation is probably to take whatever the media says with a grain of salt.
THe main problem with the book is its tone and presentation. The point is hammered home, but one too many blows. This makes it rather repetative and tedious. The narrative is not set, and it felt rather like a first draft, in which the essence is captured but on which one has to work more on presentation to make it easier for the reader to grasp concepts, when presented in largely linear fashion. However this felt much more haphazard, and since I was mostly
reading this between more serious sessions reading other things, and just wanted to shut off my brain, I missed several of the details that were mentioned, but which were crucial to the story being presented, although the conclusions drawn were caught up by me, being very in your face, and often times being presented in a sarcastic tone (which people eat up). The author/s probably were writing for a more niche audience, assuming that people reading the things were at least
partially familiar with the situation, and making the usual mistake (which Halmos tries to avoid) of treating ones own familiarity with the topic, as applicable to everyone.
In terms of the actual content of the book, I would argue that the whole thing can probably be summarized in one or two pages without losing much of the points, if one removes much of the details. There are a lot of repetations (giving the Quran a run for its money), and the book, if written by more proficient authors would probably end up being half its length. The content was rather new to me, and so initially held my interest. But since the later parts focus almost
entirely on evidence, just supporting the earlier theory, but with a different case, I soon lost most of that interest. This is the perfect book for which one should actually read the summary/abridged version, and get only the essentional information, which is mostly what one remembers anyone. However that essential information provided is quite important, and does reduce one's naviety in this world, and so I don't regret reading the book, nor do I consider it a waste of
time. The usage of relatively advanced words was one thing that occassionally resulted in an abeyance of frustruation, whenever I was in the mood for noting their appositeness. Approx no of pages 350. Rating 7/10.
