The Omnivore's Dilemma:A natural history of four meals, is a book about food and the modern industrial food system written by Michael Pollan. Its got a fairly nice style, and is very informative although it gets a bit melodramatic in the end. So without further ado.
	The book starts off by describing, the foundation of the industrial food system in the US, zea mays, the giant tropical grass, corn. Corn first domesticated by the Indians, is now the preferred crop of the industrial food system, becuase of its high efficiency in converting inputs to high calorie outputs. It has also recently adapted itself to being able to grow closely and make use of the nitrogen in the soil supplied by fertilizers. The yields have increased by a factor of ten, due to the use of these synthetic fertilizers, used to replace the nitrogen content of soil, which plans rely on, and which used to be the job of bacteria in the roots of legumes. These fertilizers are mostly products of crude oil, and are used so extensively that for every calorie of food produced, one calorie of crude oil is consumed in its manufacture. Government policies and the reduction of mannual labour necessary to grow large tracts of corn, has forced all farmers to grow cord, resulting in overproduction, and very low corn prices, resulting in the farmers making a loss, which only gets bigger, the more they produce. The government is forced to subsidize the corn to ensure the farmers get by and continue production in future years. Due to the incredible cheapness of corn, the meat industry has also started using corn as animal feed, not only in the case of poultry where the animals find it palatable, but also for pigs and cows, which have now almost adapted to a corn diet, which results in a quicker growth rate. Yet they still crave the grasses, which millions of years of evolution has made their preferred food. The Monoculture of corn, results in the need for pesticides and huge amounts of fertilizers, which wouldn't be necessary in the case of plantations featuring a diverse variety of crops, as they would use different nutrients and pests wouldn't be as big a problem.
	The meat industry treats the animals as just machines which convert high calorie intake in the form of corn, into protien, and measure efficiency as the protein yield per kg of corn. This has resulted in the selection of extremely fast growing varieties, which all live in miserable conditions, and have almsot no freedom of movement, and have to spend most of their life in close quarters and in confinement. They are pumped with antibiotics to prevent diseases, which the filth and their confinement, in large groups in a limited space, makes a particularly difficult problem to tackle, resulting in preventive pumping of the cows with antibiotics and also growth stimulants to speed up the growth process and increase 'efficiency'. This widespread use of antibiotics result in the development of superbugs, which might eventually turn out to be the end of us.
	To ensure availability of all kinds of food during all the seasons of the year, there is a big industry involved in transportation of food, all over the world, which also leaves a huge carbon footprint, adding several more calories of crude oil to every calorie of food.
	The recent growth of the organic food industry, seems an irony of sorts.The industrial organic seems oxymoronic. Although they are better than the traditional food industry, they are still not what one might imagine when one hears the word organic. The pastoral picture of farming is almost dead, and the organic food industry also uses the formulas for efficiency that the traditional food industry does, although it has to stick to a few government regulations to call itself organic. However they mark a step in the right direction, and are more sustainable as compared to the alternative.
	The author finally goes on to a relatively small farm, owned and operated by a self styled grass farmer, who raises cattle, poultry and hogs, and even rabbits in 100 out of around 500 acre farm, the rest being woodland. Here he practices truly organic sustainable farming, actually leaving the soil in a better state in the end that it would be otherwise. He practices polyculture, and rotational grazing, which ensures that the plants have time to recover and that the animals spread their fertilizing dung evenly. In terms of efficiency, he squeezes more out of an acre of land than in industrial farming, since all the grases are eaten by the cows/hens/pigs while in the case of corn, most of it goes to waste. Also the animals enjoy a better quality of life, and live as they were meant to. However he is forced to send his cows and pigs to a processing plant due to government relgualtions, although those apply to the big slaughterhouses, and were mainly made to ensure that diseases don't spread. However in such an open environment, and in the presence of sunlight, the cows are healthy even though they don't receive antibiotics. He refuses to ship his produce anywhere, and shall only sell it to people close to him, as he believes that otherwise, the food wouldn't be truly organic, and would lose all meaning. Althoug his prices are higher than the generic meant found in stores, people still flock to him, as they understant the full implications of the food industry. The cost of his produce is lesser in the end if you add government subsidies and the externalities to the price of meat produced the traditional way. 
	Some people argue that eating animals will be treated in the future just as slavery is treated now. They believe that animals are sentinent creatures who have the capability to feel pain and since we seem to believe that humans should treat each other humanely, we should extent the same curtesy to animals. If one argues that humans have superior brain power, and exhibit intelligence, then they respond that infants and severely retarted individuals don't and that animals are smarter than them and have more feeling than them atleast, and in the name of consistency one should not kill animals, unless they don't have the moral qualms of killing the retarted and infants. To that I say kill the infants and the retarted.
	In the last section, the author decides to hunt, forage and grow his own food so as the understand the full karmic debt of atleast a meal. He hunts a wild pig and forages for mushrooms. He then cooks his own meal and shares it with all who helped him to make it.
	The book was very edifying, and a good read. Approx number of pages: 450. Rating 8/10.
