This was written by Charles Darwin. It was the first decisive book written about the theory of evolution, and hence is quite popular. In it Darwin puts forward his theory and gives evidence to support it, also arguing against creationism, which although today might seem silly, was the prevalent theory of the time, for lack of anything better, as well as religious reasons. I'll be doing a chapter by chapter summary of the book. The arguments made in the book and the examples provided to support them are really decisive, and seem undeniable, and yet in this day and age, a lot of people still don't believe in it, and they have the right to vote. The book is structured in a nice way, and oftentimes the examples provided go into too much detail, and yet the author sometimes cites lack of space for not giving more examples. All the evidence provided in extraordinary detail gets a bit tedious at times to the casual reader like myself, but is definitely a necessary thing in a book of science. 
	The book starts off by arguing that animals surely vary under domestication, as can be seen by the constantly improving breeds that wee see around us, and the same holds for plants as well. The breeders/Gardeners pick those which are the best, and tend to favourably breed them, and so those characteristics that are looked for, will continue to become more dominant in the population. As a result the whole stock eventually changes in minute ways. Sometimes some character changes along with another character, as change in one is correlated to a change in another. Sometimes the selection by humans might be unconscious, like some tribseman preserving their most valuable dogs, during famines, and so such dogs get to reproduce more due to living a longer life. There is also a difficulty in classifying different animals as different species or varieties of one species becauase sometimes they are very simlar to one another. Variation is generally favoured by a larger population, since they are more likely to vary, and also by prevention of intercrossing, or the isolation of one stock, either geographically or by man, so as to encourage the variations which occur.
	In the second chapter he talks about the difficulty of classifying things as species of varieties, those being classified as species having more difference, but there is no standard way to tell whether something is a species or a variety. In fact many times people disagree as the whether two animals or plants are species or varieties of the same species. In nature in general the species of the larger genera seem to have more varieties amonst them, and also have more common links betewen the speices. He says this  can be explained if we assume that species came from varieties, but would be inexplicable if they were created separately. So the larger genera becomes larger still, and further becomes subdivided into smaller genera, and the dominant life forms become more dominant by means of small changes, and leaving such more dominant descendentsa
	In the third chapter he talks about the general principle of natural selection. If one can presuppose that small changes occur in individuals of a species, and that these changes if favoruable to the individual will be preserved in the descendents through inheritance, then this process occuring over several generations will select those variations which are most suitable for the organism and lead to some stock of a species becoming varieties and eventaully species in turn. The struggle for existance is seen through the simple fact that the offspring produced by animals should lead to a geometric ratio of increase, but overall the populaton doesn't change much, due to checks and balances in nature, and so there is a struggle for existance out of which only the fittest survive and are naturally selected to propogate their progeny. The struggle for existance is most severe amongst the most closely related species since they shall compete for the same things, be it food or mates. There is also a complex relation in nature between different species, somtimes the excess of one causing and excess or deficit of another, and picking those which rely on them. This correlation amongst species also plays a role in natural selection.
	He goes on to say that aparth from natural selection leading to preservation of favourable charactersitics, sexual selection plays a vital role as well, amongst the males, so that only the more vigorous can propogate their characteristics. Divergance of character is also favoured, since it shall decrease competation for the same resources, and allow more individuals to be supported. We must also not take for granted that we can classify animals based on their similarity into something like an inverted tree, with species forming the leaves, and twigs represented by genera and so on. Species are generally clustered around some points, and this is perfectly compatible with natural selection and the principle of divergence of character. Each branch is constantly fighting with other brances, and some survive while other decay and die out. Variability due to natural selection is favoured by a larger population and increased variability in a species. Species which don't cross often are also faster at modifying themselves.
	In the fifth chapter, he talks about the effect of use or disuse of an organ, in the long run. Species especially among plants, often thought to be highly suited only to one climate, sometimes become naturalized in foreign climates, and its hard to predict whether or not this will happen. Although species generally have a limited range, and so are used to a particular temperature cycle, one cannot definitely predict whether or not a species will survive a transition to a different climate. Another factor is due to the intricy of the body and its development, which causes correlated variations, which arise due to the modification of another part, by natural selection, affecting some quite distinct part, which in itself may not be helpful or favourable to the individual. Generally nature has a limited budget and so an increase in one aspect shall generally lead to a decrease in another, so a harse can be swift or strong but generally not both. Lower organs, and repeated organs, as well as highly eccentric organs, tend to be more variable, the later probably due to having evolved more recently in the organism's past. Specific characters more variable than generic characters. Generic characters are those which the organism has in common with organisms from closely allied genera and so date back to a longer time in its evolutionary history. All this again points to the fact that more recent variations are more variable.
	In this sixth chapter he refutes arguments that could be used against the theory. One such argument being the necessasity of innumerable linking forms between the different species. However since the reason species evolves are because they are better, the progeny shall replace the parent species, since the progeny are better. And so there need not be continuous linking forms. Another argument agains the theory is in the case of organs of seemingly high perfection/complexity such as the eye. However if it can be shown that such an organ can arise through a series of small continous gradations, and that each such gradation would be helpful to the organism, then it can be explained by the theory. He also says that if one cannot think of such a serires of gradations, one should not be hasty to conclude that its impossible since an organ can sometimes have evolved and then suddenly been used for a different purpose. For example a fish's swimbladder has become converted into an organ of breathing. Sometimes one might find characters which aren't helpful to the individual such as webbed feet in some land birds, but that could be due to the fact that it was useful to the predecessors of the species in question. Unity of type and Conditions of existance, the former meaning that several species closely related yet having entirely different conditions of life, have a very similar structure, and the latter meaning that each organism seems to fit its role perfectly, are both compatible with natural selection. The first can be explained by unity of descent, by the fact that they all had a common ancestor, and the second is the principle of natural selection itself.
	This seventh chapter deals with a few miscellaneous objections to the theory of natural selection. One can argue that longevity is an advantage, and so the descendents should live loner than their parents, but this can easily seen to be untrue for certain plants which are alive only during the summer, and can't withstand the winter. However longevity in general depends on the difficulty of reproduction and and how highly developed an organism is. Another objection could be, how can a parent species live side by side with its descendent. However if the descendent has modified itself to fit a different station in nature, then this could easily happen. Yet another objection is that several organs seem highly trivial to have envolved due to natural selection. However we might not fully comprehend the utility of an organ. Even otherwise, variability might result in such organs, and they may have persisted as they provide a better condition of life for those who possess it. Another question would be if a long neck in a giraffe is so helpful, why haven't other animals developed them. That could be explained by saying that once the giraffes were the tallest, the competation woudl be between giraffe and girafee and not between other animals. There are other similar objections, all wonderfully refuted, through mostly simple thought processes, and sometimes solid examples, and are too numerous for me to innumerate here. So moving on.
	In the eight chapter he talks about instincts and how they fit in with the theory. Although at first glance instincts seem to be contrary to the principle of natural selection and inheritance, given that they are extremely useful to an organism, and given that they are inherent and that the mental qualities vary, small changes, which are helpful to the organism will be preserved, and in this way natural selection acts on instincts as well. Given the fact that no instinct has been developed for the sole good of another species, and that not all instincts are perfect, and some instincts which are beneficial to other species, are so because that other species take advantage of them also are in the bounds of the theory. In this way one can explain the behaviour of the cuckoo laying its eggs, of bees making perfect cells in their hives(wax being a precious resource) and slave making behaviour of ants, in this manner.
	In the ninth chapter he deals with the sterility of intercrossing of two species, which is an almost general rule, but which however sometimes has exceptions. The reason why crossing of varieties and crossing of species leads to these different results, is not because natural selection acts on it, but because the species are too different in their genes to produce a compatible offspring, which is perfect in every aspect. Just like changing the natural conditions of life sometimes results in sterility and decreased vigor, crossing with different species, also leads to such consequences. However to claim that this mechanism was created just to ensure that species wouldn't intercross seems a bit of a stretch.
	The tenth chapter titled, the imperfection of the geological record, devles into detail as to why we do not find a lot of intermediate species in the fossil record. Firstly because the conditions for the forming of a successful fossil occur very rarely, and so even if we were to find all the fossil records present, they would still make up but a small fraction of the total history of species on earth. The species that are found, fit in with the theory perfectly. Natural selection is a very slow process, could have only occured over millions of years. This is backed up by geological data, which shows that the earth is 20-400 million years old (4.5 billion). 
	The eleventh chapter he goes into more detail about the contents of the previous chapter and what they imply. New species appear slowly over time, and at different rates, ie not all species appear at the same rate. Once a species goes extinct it doesn't reappear. If something similar does come up again, it would have evolved from something again, and it won't be exactly the same as the previous species, especially internally. The extinct species as seen in the fossil record, bear a relation to each other and to present species.
	IN the twelvth chapter he talks about the distribution of animals and plants, which cannot be accounted for by differences in physical conditoins. Barriers are am important part of evolution, so as to allow a species to undergo changes without frequent intercrossing with the parent species which might prevent changes.
	He then talks about how plants and sometimes animals can be dispersed so as to be widespread even in places separated by hundreds of miles of ocean or some other physical barrier.
	In the fourteenth chapter he talks about difficulties in classification for a variety of reasons and how they are helped by natural selection. He also talks about how extinction separates and defines groups, origin of rudimentary organs and so on.
	The fifteenth chapter which is the last chapter is just a summary of the whole book, with a reiteration of its key points.
	Overall origin of species was a nice book, if dry at times. I'd make a good read, although some facts are wrong, to due insufficient knowledge during that time period. But by and large its factual and the explanations for different things are very logical and are probably mostly valid even today. Length 450 pages. Rating 8/10.
