This is an epic poem by John Milton. It seems quite old, and its style, rather grand, is really beautiful. There is something really enthralling about it, and it has motivated me to try the illiad again, which I found to be quite boring the first time I tried reading it.
As the name suggests (although when I started it, I thought the name was a mere methaphor to the human condition), it is quite literally about the loss of paradise by Adam and Eve, as a result of Satan's temptation. When I first read that part in the bible, it was so dry, but Milton, without altering the story, just through his writing prowess, has made it a real page turner. Inspite of the excessive praise heaped upon God, and its descriptive nature, it doesn't get boring. Although the way the characters are behaving, especially God seems quite petulent and purile, the writing makes up for it and actually makes them look good. Howeve bringing reason into it, for example by suggesting that it was for the sake of free will that God did not prevent Adam from eating the apple, show the naivety. 
The best parts are those with Satan, and his highly dramatic style, especially in the beginning. One almost feels bad for him. I'll just give a short summary below.
We start off with the fall of the rebellious angels, with lucifer at their head. Once they fall to hell (after quite some time (either an entire afternoon of a week idr)) they regroup, and start moaning about their state. Eventually they all hold council and Satan volunteers to go and see if he can get them out of there, and still somehow win back the throne. As he goes toward the gate of hell, he finds there his two children, sin and death. They let him through after a short standoff, and he goes through. Once out, he goes through some unknown territory of Chaos(I think), and eventaully finds his way to earth. He hears of the new creation of God, and decides to corrupt them. (Fastforward) God created Adam and from his Rib Eve (the 7 whole 7 days schebang). One of the arch angel, who comes to warn Adam of Lucifer's presence also tells him the creating story, and continually warms him about staying true to his promise to God. However the devious Lucifer, eventually sneeks through the defense of the angels, and convinces Eve (who is still innocent at that point (synonymous to naive)) to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge, which had been expressly forbidden to them by God. She feels gives way (being a woman and all) and takes it to Adam as well. Adam regretfully eats it, not wanting to do it, but his love for Eve leads him to think that he'd rather suffer with Eve than stay in paradise without her, prefering to share her doom with her, than live happy.
Immediately after eating of the fruit, the are intoxicated, and he 'knows' her as he's never know her before. However it soon wears off, and they both start feeling guilty and for the first time shame for their nakedness. Meanwhile Satan fearful of God runs away. God sends his Son to pass judgement of Man, and then sends an archangel to inform them of their plight. Seeing them remorseful he softens and asks the archangel to show him the future where in the end, Man gets his revenge on the serpent who was the cause of all the mischief in the first place.
Here we are taken through most of the bible, in a real quick way (the main story parts Eg. Kane and Abel, Noah's ark,Egypt, Jesus and the virgin birth etc). Finally it ends with the archangel talking about the final day of judgement, and its associated promise.
Its a really lovely read, and the grad style, were it only better employed towards say describing the actual creating of the universe, would have been that much better. Would definitely recommend it to everyone (if you genuinely enjoy reading, you will love it). Rating 9/10. Approx number of pages ~340.
