This is a book by Jane Austen. Went in with high hopes, wasn't disappointed as such, but a little let down. It didn't have the same gripping feel as the other books. Or maybe I've just grown out of the liking jane austen phase. It was rather short, and in contract to her usual, girl being the lower in society (as in pride and prejudice) or even when the girl is higher up, its not by a lot(as in Emma), this has the girl being much higher up in society than the guy, and so she has to bring her family rather vain family around to liking him as well.
Although the theme can be the same, the plot should vary more, pretty much all of her books are of the form, boy girl, family drama, boy girl end up happily together, despite social circumstances (its always the social circumstances).
Anne is the protagonist. She is one of three daughters to a rather vain baron, (vain in the most purile way, about his looks). After the death of his wife, who was a sensible woman, the baron lives beyond his means, and is soon in debt. Only when it becomes dire does he confide his situation in his daughters and close friends. Upon their behest, he is convienced (or rather tricked into) moving out of their big country house whose maintainence is beyond them at present, and into a more modest house at bath. He is also convinced to let his country house to rent, to a admiral. One of his daughters is married, and the other two one at 27 and the other at 29 are unmarried. His estate is entailed and his lacking male prodigy makes a cousin of Anne the heir. 
Anne is the 27 year old. nearly 8 years ago, she was in love with an up and coming man, a mr wentworth, the nephew of the wife of the admiral to whom they have let their house. While the family is beginning its move to bath, Anne is decides to stay back for a few months, dividing her time evenly between the house of her married sister(who seems to have a mild case of the Munchausen syndrome) and her trusted friend/ metorish person Lady Russel. Wentwoth, is now a captain in the navy, and has distinguished himself, and made a fortune. He naturally comes back to visit his Aunt, and spend some time around his hometown, and starts visiting acquaintances in the process. At that time he runs into Anne, and their previous parting having been far from cordial, gives her the cold sholder. Anne is still in love with him. Watching him court her sisters, sisters in law, is painful to her, but she soon accpets it, blaming herself for breakign off their previous attachment, upon the advice of her friends and family who considered such a match beneath her. She however regrets her decision. 
One day they all decide to go for a picnic to a nearby town, where Wentworth has a few friends, fellow captains from the navy. During the trip, Lousia Musgrove has an accident, and is forced into bedrest for a few weeks. This period breaks off her attachment with Wentworth, and she is soon exgaged to one of his friends (also a captain). Meanwhile Anne moves to bath to join her family. There she catches up with an old friend of hers from school, who has fallen into hard times. She also finds out that the heir, who had previously been cold towards them and had quite rudely rejected their accquaintaince, is now making himself very desireable and is eager to please, his courtesy and manners making up for his previous misconduct, the family, led by the superficial and vacuous baron, accepts him into their fold. He becomes a regular visitor, and everyone soon starts expecting his proposing to Anne, and their marriage seems be an accepted thing everyone is looking forward to. Meanwhile Anne has different ideas, and decides to stay a spinster, ever faithful towards her past flame, Wentworth. Meanwhile she finds out some distressing news about Mr Eliot the heir, from her newly renewd friendship with her old schoolmate. 
Around this time, Wentworth has come to Bath, and is initially unsure of whether Anne still likes him or not. Seeing Eliot's behaviour towards Anne, he gets very jelous, and feels that she is lost to him. However hearing her conservation with his friend, he impetuously writes her a letter and makes his feelings know to her. Upon reading the letter, Anne is overjoyed. They later meet in the street and tell each other their side of the story. All is happy!
Wouldn't recommend reading it,it being rather substandard, unless you have nothing else to read. Approx number of pages ~250 Rating 7/10.
