This is a rather long book by charles dickens. The writing style is really something else, and I very much doubt if it was only the product of its times rather leaning towards its being mostly the originality of dickens. One aspect which put me off however, was its change of tone, from frivolous and funny, and critizing of people of immense self importance, to something serious and making the protagonist from someone who is well meaning but silly, to someone who is benevolent, magnanimous and sometimes genuinely clever. However other than this change of tone, and sometimes forced scenes of the novel, it was really quite an enjoyable read. 
The founder of the Pickwian club, a Mr Pickwick, is the protagonist. He is a nice fat person, very dignified and proper, and it doesn't hurt that he's well off.He and three friends set out on a journey, at the behest of the club, upon a scientific or historical endevour(its not very important). We follow Pickwick through his journey, and the strange circumstances in which he keeps finding himself. Initially Pickwick takes everyone at their word, without a bullshit filter, as shown when he unquestioningly accepts the groom's word about the stamina of his horse which has been out for 3 weeks straight. And many a times its this gullibility which leads him to his ridiculous situations despite of his good intentions. The groom mistakes him for a cop, as Pickwick dutifully takes note of everything said by him, and starts a row, which is eventually broken up by a Mr Jingle, who saves him from the groom, and fools Pickwick and his group into thinking that he's a gentleman. He then tags along with them on their travels, and introduces them to another of his accomplice. Jingle has a nice manner of speaking and wholly takes in the unwitting upperclass in a first encounter. Eventually they part ways, and the Pickwick group somehow find themselves in the middle of a battle training exercise, and finding himself in a pickle, is at a loss as to what to do. That's when he comes across Mr Wardle, who offers the whole group a seat in his carriage, from where they can safely view the whole event. After this akward manner of acquaintance, the Pickwickians retire to their hotel, and make plans to visit Mr Wardle later.
They hire a carriage to go to Mr Wardle's home, but since there's place in it only for 3, Mr Winkle, the self proclaimed outdoorsman is made to ride on a horse. However he's a 'humbug', and soon loses his horse, which returns to the hotel. At the same time, the remaining three gentlemen lose control of their carriage, which ends up getting destroyed. They decide to walk the rest of the way, taking the horse of the carriage with them. Upon finally reaching Wardles' the give up the burden of the horse to the fat boy, who's Mr Wardle's manservent. They get along splendidly with everyone in the household, which solecomprises of Mr Wardle's daughters, his spinster sister, and his kinda deaf mother. Tupman forms an attachment to the spinster sister. Eventually they go hunting and Mr Wardle is told that Mr Winkle, is the only one among them with any experience. However Mr Winkle knows nothing about guns, and accidentally shoots Tupman. They men leave Mr Tupman in the care of the ladies of the house, and themselves go to a cricket match. Here they run into Mr Jingle, who Mr Pickwick introduces as a friend, to Mr Wardle. Eventually everyone becomes quite jovial with drink, and Mr Winkle is invited to Mr Wardle's house. They walk back home drunk. Mr Jingle is looking for some quick money, and upon finding out the attachment formed between Mr Tupman and the spinster sister, he decides to get the spinster for herself, and take whatever little money she has in her name. He sets about destroying her opinion of Mr Tupman, whom he convinces to converse with Emily, one of the younger daughters, and flirt with her, to throw off suspicion about him and the spinster. And He then flatters the spinster, and convinces her to run off with him. He also borrows money from Tupman himself for this end. 
Upon finding out about the flight of his sister, Mr Wardle is furious, and immediately takes off after her, Mr Pickwick joining so as to check his fury, and assist in the matter. After a long chase, they eventually catch up, but just then uncuckily their carriage overturns and Mr Winkle gets away. They eventually make their way to London and began searching for Mr Winkle and the runaway sister, along with the assistance of Wardle's lawyer. They eventually come upon Sam, a bootcleaner at a hotel, and find out where the absconding pair are holed up. They eventually burst into the room, unannounced, and Wardle's lawyer takes Mr Winkle into another room to offer him money to go away, knowing that that was his purpose all along. He gives him 120 pounds and Mr Winkle satisfied goes away. The sister is much disilllusioned with love, and returns with her brother, depressed.
Meanwhile back on Wardle's estate, Tupman hearing of the return of the sister, can't bear to face her after all that's happened, since he still loves her, and so he clandestinely goes away, leaving a note to that effect. Pickwick, Snodgross and Winkle follow him and convince him to accompony them, to which Tupman is finally won over. That's when Mr Pickwick finds the ancient artifact, a stone with something written on it, which seems very mysterious due to its incoherent nature. Convinced of it being an artifact of extreme importance Pickwick purchases it from the clueless villager, and sends it to London. 
This brings a lot of fame and international acclaim to Mr Pickwick, who writes a treatise on the topic and is added to several native and international societies. When on member of the Pickwickian club points out that the artifact is worthless and while the stone might have been from an earlier age, the writing was scribbled on by the peasant who sold it to Pickwick (on the peasant's own addmitance of that fact) and the incoherence was due to a mistake by the illiterate peasant, rather than some profound cause of much significane, he is looked down upon as an enemy of Pickwick who filled with envy resulting in malice, is trying to spoil the name of Pickwick. He calls the foreign and native societies which patronized Pickwick humbug, rseulting in a sharp retaliation, with the concerned societies tearing him apart, and ostracizing him. 
One afternoon after all this occured,while waiting for his friends, Mr Pickwick is having a conversation with his Landlady. He asks her whether he thinks it would be a considerable financial burden, to care for two rather than one, upon which the landlady, Mrs Bardle, mistaking this for a subtle proposal, says that she would be honored and throws herself at Pickwick and tries to kiss him, and faints away in his arms. Mr Pickwick is indignant upon this violation upon his person, and as he catches her to prevent her from following when she faints, the expected friends walk in, along with Sam, who Pickwick is planning to keep as a manservent, and was the topic of conversation of Mr Pickwick with his landlady, which the latter mistook to be herself. The friends are astonished by this scene, as it is out of keeping with Mr Pickwick's usual way of conduct. However it is soon explained away, and Sam is hired, and the friends set out for a journey.
They head to a town to witness its famous election, where the two parties are almost violently opposed, mostly just for the sake of being opposed, without any valid reason to their disagreement. They are made privy to the situation by the extremely partisan view of one of the chief proponents of one of the parties, Mr Pott, and they stay with him for a few days, but here being only room for two, the othres stay at a hotel, which is also owned by people of the same party. The election takes place and one of them is elected mayor, much to the satisfacton of that party and intense disapointment of the other. One day Mr Pickwick is found out by a Patron of great men, and her husband invites him to a lunch gathering. Mr Pickwick acquiesces. There he again runs into Mr Wikle masquerading as someone else.
Upon seeing Mr Pickwick, Mr Winkle immediately retreats to his own carriage and heads back. Mr Pickwick determines to follow bent upon revenging himself, for the griviences conveyed against him by Winkle. Meanwhile a rumor is spread by the opposite party that Mrs Pott and Winkle are having an affair, which makes Mr Pott furious, and Mrs Pott is extremely indignant that her husband would accuse her of such a thing, and Mr Pott is soon made extremely sorry. Mr Winkle however is unhappy with the situation he is in, and leave the house. Meanwhlie Pickwick pursue Winkle to a neighbouring town, where the latter is staying, and rents a room. Sam sets out to get information about the whereabouts of Winkle, and when he's on this quest, he runs into Job trotter, the supposed servent of Winkle, who lets on that his master is planning to run away with a young lady from a school. Upon hearing this Pickwick determined to stop him, listens to Job's advise to creep into the school at night and catch Winkle red handed, as otherwise people might not believe him.
Winkle follows this plan of action, but is left outside in the rain, having been duped by Job. The friends return to London, Pickwick extremely disappointed, but still determined to catch Winkle. Meanwhlie Mrs Bardell, Pickwick's housekeep has been suing Pickwick for false marriage proposals, to the amount of 1500 pounds. Pickwick is extremely shocked, and tries to confront her attornies. However the meeting ends badly, and Pickwick realizes what thieves they are. Around this time, Pickwick and his faithful servent Sam run into Sam's father, and after some amount of conversation, one of the topics of which is Sam's father, Mr Weller's, idea that his turning Sam out into the streets at a young age did him good by making him sharp, Sam dejectedly admits to being duped by Job inspite of that, and relates the story of Pickwick being folled by Winkle. At this point Mr Weller realizes that one of his recent passengers, were the persons described, namely Winkle and Job. Upon finding out their location, Pickwick and Sam set out to bring them to justice. 
Upon Mr Pickwick reaching the town mentioned by Mr Weller, Sam sets out to find out where Jingle is acting out his next scam. At this point he runs into Job quite accidentally, and calls him out. Meanwhile Mr Pickwick has accidentally entered the room of a lady, and finds himself quite embarrased, and claiming it to be an honest mistake, walks out. However later the next day, his fellow traveller and by now close acquaintance, informs him of the success of the purpose of his visit of proposing to his lady, and introduces her to him. Upon finding out that its the same woman's who's room he had accidentally entered, Pickwick is very embarassed as is the woman. However the fellow traveller mistakes there to have been some dishonorable contact between the two previously and doubting the honor of the lady, and of Mr Pickwick, the two men quarrel and part ways. Fearing a duel, which to the mind of the woman, seems a very plausible outcome, she immediately sets out to the justice to inform him of the duel about to take place, specifying the name of Pickwick and his second Tupman, however leaving out her own beloved's name.
Soon an order for arrest is issued for Pickwick and Tupman, and as they are being carried to the house of The Justice, followed by Snodgrass and Winkle, Sam runs into them, returning from his errand of finding out Mr Jingle, and finding Mr Pickwick imprisoned, starts up a ruckuss, and all of them are soon taken into custady, and are soon produced before the justice. Sam soon realizes that that was the house where he ran into Job trotter, and informs Pickwick of the same. The Judge's harsh tone changes after Pickwick has a private conversation with him about Jingle and asks him to give him a chance to prove his statement by confronting the latter. The Justice fearful of his social standing, if duped by a conman decides to free the whole group, and that night for dinner, when Jingle shows up, Pickwick exposes him, while sam exposes Job. They are both thrown out, the justice not wanting to cause a scence, which would harm his social standing. Sam forms an attachment to a pretty main in the justice's house.
Eventually, their purpose accomplished, the group return to London, and soon head out to a wedding at Mr Wardle's, that of one of his daughters. There is a lot of merry making, and toasting. After the wedding, around Christmas time, they all set upon ice skating. Mr Winkle who has claimed to have some experience is beseached upon to skate. But here again he's a humbug and crashes rather badly. During this period WInkle forms an attachmet to Arabella, and Snodgras to Emily. When the group leave Wardle's these two sigh the lover's sigh, and are not content. Everyone returns to London.
The court case of Bardell vs Pickwick proceedes, and is decided in favour of the plaintiff Bardell, to the amount of 750 pounds. Pickwick refuses to pay on principal. He has two months within which to pay the specified amount, during which time the group adjorns to Bath. Here Winkle finds himself in a misunderstanding, resulting in his person being threated. He decides to run away, and reaches a neighbouring town. There he runs into Bob Sawyer and Ben Allen, the latter being the brother of Arabella. Meanwhile Sam comes to find him and bring him back. Howver Pickwick joins them, and Sam is set out to find the location of Miss Arabella. He accidentally finds her, by luck, when he runs into the pretty main from the justice's who after joining services with another, who later shifted to the prsent town, happens to be living next to the young lady (arabella) in qusetion. Sam sets up a meeting between Arabella and Winkle, initially superwised by Pickwick. Finally its time for Pickwick to return to London, upon which he is sent to the debtors prison.
he spends 3 montsh there, accompanied by his loyal servant Sam, who deliberately gets nito debt so as to be close to and serve his master. Meanwhile Bardell's lawyers also throw her into debtors prison, for not having paid their fee's, which they had initially told her would only be due if the case was won, and she received payment from Pickwick. Pickwick feels sorry for her, and upon persuasion by his attorney Mr Perker, he agrees to pay off her fees. At around the same time, Mr Winkle elopes with Arabellaa and the duo request Pickwick to convey the news to Mr Winkle's father, and Arabella's only living relation, her brother. Pickwick kagrees. He first goes to the brother's who is initially extremely angry but soon comes to, and decides to come back to London with pickwick. Upon the way, they stop at Mr Winkle senior's hosue, but ben and Bob being quite inebriated, they make quite the fool out of themselves. Mr Winkle Sr is also initially angry that Winkle married without his consent, or even knowledge. But eventually he comes around when he meets them in London. Meanwhile Wardle comes to London to inform Pickwick of the attachment of Emily and Snodgras, and although initially he is quite opposed to that notion, a speech by Snodgrass and Emily's entreaties bring him around. And so all ends in happiness.
Sam's mtoher in law, who had initially got into a church, and the company of a lazy self rightous man, and was a plague on Mr Weller Sr, dies and at the last moment realizes the folly of her ways, and gets back into Mr Weller Sr's good graces. She leaves him 1100 pounds and Sam 200. Mr Weller Sr not knowing what to do with so much money, and knowing that if he keeps it he's sure to waste it away, gives it to Mr Pickwick, who reluctantly acquises and accepts it.
And so all ends well and happy, except Mr Tupman who is still disappointed in his love. Mr Pickwick finally feels old age upon him and retires to a quiet old home, well furnished, accompanied by his loyal Sam and the pretty maid. After two years Sam and the maid get married.
Rating 8/10 Approx No of pages 900
