This is a book by Jane Austen, and its one of my personal favourites. I wanted to try out audio books, and having read this twice, thought this would be a nice book to start off with. The audio book experience was nice. And so is this book.
Its set in the 18th century where the main worry of girls was to get married off as soon as possible. Most of them were empty headed and vain, or were excessively diffident. The protogonist Elizibeth hereafter called lizy, is a daughter in a family of five daughters. Their estate has been entained. Here mother is a silly frivolous person. Her father is supercillous and sarcastic. Lizy and Jane, the second eldest, and the eldest respectively are the only good apples in the family. 
  A gentleman Mr Bingley having an annual income of 4000 pounds maybe more, comes and settles at netherfield, in the neigherhood of Mr Bennets residence. Since he is of marrigable age, Mrs Bennet hopes to get one of her daughters married off to him. She entreats her husband to call on him, and the later acquiesces. Mr Bingley returns the call, hoping to see a few of the daughters of the house, whose beauty has preceeded them. However he only meets with Mr Bennet, and the girls are not introduced. They later meet however at a ball, and Bingley's attention is absorbed by the oh so handsome Jane. Soon they are marked out for marriage. Everyone is talking about it. However this brings the affair to Mr Darcy's notice. Mr Darcy being a very close friend to Bingley, the later having full trust in the formers abilities and judgemenets, Mr Darcy feels that its his duty to prevent Bingley's marriage to Jane, as he feels that her scheming relatives are to be given credit for Bingley's attachment, and that Jane doesn't reciprocate the feeling, she being rather tepid on that matter. 
  However Mr Darcy is mistaken as its Jane's diffidence that keeps her from showing her attachment, and she is quite truly in love with Bingley. However Darcy and Bingley's sisters who have other plans for him contrive to take him away to London, and keep him there so that Bingley can forget about Jane. Meanwhile despite his best efforts, Darcy finds himself falling in love with the second Ms Bennet, Lizzy. However due to his 'haughty nature' and his 'pride' none of this really shows, and no one is any wiser towards his feelings for Elizibeth.
  Jane is heartbroken by the news that Mr Bingley has left Netherfield. Lizzy triers to console her, but its in vain. She then goes to spend some time in London at the behest of her aunt. However Bingley's sister and Darcy strive to keep her away from Bingley, thinking it not wise to let him interact with her since his passion has not yet died away. Meanwhile the Bennet's cousin, the one to whom the estate is to go after Mr Bennet's death due to the entail, visits. He is a clergyman and has decided to take one of the Ms Bennets for a wife, and so do a far on the family to whom he no doubt will cause displeasure. During this same time, a militia regiment has settled in the vicinity. The younger Bennets being rather vain and foolish in the sterotypical girly manner, are much charmed. They enjoy flirting with the officers, and are fully satisfied with life, considering nothing not even the end of the world could be worse than the regiment moving away, and leaving them to their dull life in the country. There a Mr Wickham joins the regiment, and his contenance is so pleasing to the ladies that they instantly fall in love with him. He however favours Lizzy and soon they become swell friends, and an attachment begins to develop between the two. However its not very passsionate and consideration of the circumstances lead them to a silent mutual farewell.
  Mr Collins, the cousin of the Bennets, above reffered to, makes his proposal offer to Lizzy, settling on her after finding out that Jane is quite taken with Bingley. However Lizzy refuses, and the whole affair is quite the fiasco. He later on marries a friend of hers, a Ms Charlotte, a daughter (or maybe niece) of the Lucases, a neighbour of the Bennets. Charlotte's close relation to Lizzy breaks becoz of this. However she invites her to visit them at their new home, which is right by Rosings, the park of Collin's patroness. She takes her up on her offer, and sets off after the span of the few months. This is the same time that Jane is in London. In Rosings, she runs into Mr Darcy, who happens to be the nephew of Lady Catherine the owner of Rosings. There his manner towards her is akward, and she disdains him for his role in the breaking up of Bingley's attachment to her sister, and also based on the account given of him by Wickham. Mr Darcy is present there with a close relation of his, and the latter is quite agreeable towards Lizzy.
  Darcy, on the last day of her stay at the Collin's, proposes to her, and makes tells him of his love. However she rejects him for the above mentioned resons, and explains to him why she doesn't want him for a husband. The next day he presents her with a letter, refuting some claims and justifying others. Although initially she is quite angry at him and refuses to see his point, she later comes to and see's that he wasn't in the wrong.
  She goes back home, via London, collecting Jane along the way. She relates the story of his proposal to her. After a few months, again Lizzy goes on a trip with her uncle and aunt. They decide to visit the latters hometown, Darbshire. That happens to be where Pemberly the estate of Mr Darcy is located. She runs into him there as well. He is very civil towards her and her relatives, even inviting them to dine with them. He introduces his sister to her, and she find her quite charming, not at all proud as was claimed by Wickham. She starts falling in love with him, along with its characteristic does he still love me, no he doesn't.... stuff. However one morning, she receives a letter from home, informing her that Lydia has eloped with Wickham. She is all fluttered, and confused, and that's when Darcy walks in. Still processing the news, she tells it all to him unmindful of her option not to do so. He immediately assists her, and sends a servant to get her uncle and aunt. When they arrive he leaves her and heads out. The three hold a meeting and decide to head back immediately.
  Once back home, she is informed about everything that occured. Her father has set out in pursuit of the absconding couple. Her uncle joins him. Eventually her father comes back, and her uncle continues the search. Soon word comes that they have been found and that Wickham has agreed to marry her. Her father thinks that her uncle has settled accounts with Wickham, and silently thanks him for it. However it turns it that it was Darcy who did all this. After the marriage she finds out that it was Darcy through the loquacious Lydia who relates her wedding day to her. She immediately writes to her aunt, and requests more information. Soon Bingley and Darcy come back. And to end it quickly lets just says that Darcy and lizzy, Jane and Bingley both the couples get engaged. And they are all the happiest people in the world.
  I don't know why I like this story so much, but for some reason its quite captivating, despite its weak plot, and shitty characters who don't really do anything productive in life. So since its one of my all time favourites I'll give it a 10/10. Approx no of pagess : 350
