This is a play by Bernard Shaw. While not as good as man and superman, it still
has its own interesting characterns and a few witticisms. It is quite short,
coming in at about a 100 pages.
The play opens by introducing the main protagonists, and the circumstances of
their meeting each other. Higgins and Pickerings are famed linguists, each
a master of his own niche of linguistics. They have been intendending to meet
each other, and accidentally run into each other, while waiting out the rain in
London. There they also meet a boorish, uncouth flower girl, whose terriable
english accent is a conspicuous testimony to her lack of Savoir Faire. She is
also quite hysterical, and through her paranoia the author apparently is making
a point about the Victorian era attitudes towards female sex workers. Anyway,
while the two linguists are discussing their interests and methodologiess, the
pert and presumptuous Eliza (the flower girl) barges in and depands lessons in
speaking 'proper' polished english, so as to be able to get a more respectable
job in a flower shop, and offers to pay so measely an amount, as to showcase her
naivety and endear her to the audiance in a way that is only possible through
patronage of the stupid. While she is initially laughed at, somehow a bet is made
and Higgins agrees to give her lessons, and pass her off as a duchess in a mere
six months time period.
The new friends now start training her, and after six pain staking months, the
quick learning Eliza is successfully passed off in 'top notch' society as a
geentel person. Higgins, impervious to proper human interaction begins ignoring
Eliza, despite growing quite fond of her, and depending heavily on her. Eliza
is deeply affect by this apparent indifference, and ends up picking a fight,
totally unwarranted in his opinion, with him. However they soon make up, with
the help of a few supporting characters, and they three enjoy a happy life
ever after, in their own way.
It was definitely an entertaining read, and as the first act of this play was
part of our syllabus in middle school, it had a tinge of nostalgia to it as well,
so I am disposed to like it. The hidden social commentary, which seems to
pervade all of Shaws works would have been largely lost on me (the subtle things)
unless pointed out explictly, since right now most of the things that he was
fighting against are just commonplace so as to not every warrant a second thought.
It goes to show how much we have progressed in terms of several social issues,
over a period of a mere centuary. But all that is irrelevant, the play is in itself
good, without ataining greatness, and that's okay. The slightly eccentric, fully
of life characters along with their idiocyncracies and the well scripted dialogue
is what makes it enjoyable. Reading such a short book, in between ones 15 times
its length was also fun. Approx no of pages ~100. Rating 9/10.
