Not going to give a real summary here, since it wasn't in any particular order. Disclaimer, I didn't do any research about the quran and went in prejudiced, but it was better than I thought albeit still bs. I picked up a free copy which was being given out by amity international, and it was only 500 pages, so don't know if its abridged or not, still this is a review about the copy I read.
	First things first the book was mostly stating that allah was the one true god and citing itself as proof of that fact. Now take away all parts like this and all references to the disbelievers suffering eternal torment and literally more than half the book will melt away. So just terrible presentation. But in a way the persistant insistence might be a good thing for indoctrination. The rest of the book was just incoherent and often silly not fully completed and repeated stories. Very few parts had any real content, I'd say around 5% of the book was all that had real content without all the added references to the usual day of ressurection and the ayats(proofs of allahs existence) and the zalium ( polytheists and disbelievers). Quite often its said, don't bother arguing with them (the disbelievers) since allah himself has hardened their hearts and sealed their ears, but then it goes on to say in the same page that they shall be called to account for their sins of disbelief on the last day. -_- .
	To its credit though, there really wasn't as much direct calls to violence as I'd assumed there would be based on my opinions before going in and there was as much sexism as I'd expected. Don't get me wrong there is pleanty of both, just that my expectations were much higher. And most of the sexism was implict so it would be hard to pin down to people who don't want to see it, and the same goes for violence. Just to clarify though, there is more than enough violence and unjustified ideas like killing gay people and stuff, but there are also places where it says allah will take care of people on the last day so you don't have to worry, and then it again says jihad is the best thing, and that every true muslim should donate to the cause at the very least, and that seems like a dangerous thing to say. Again the apologetics will find places where it refers to jihad as defense, but there are sufficient places where it is also offensive so thats a weak excuse.
	Its a powerful book, in that to people who are mostly illeterate or who don't real read a lot, and consider things in books to be correct, or things said by people who they consider superior to be correct, without any critical thinking on their part, shall find this book appealing, due to its painful simplicity and shall believe it to be true just because its in a book(which is also what it says(the ayat is the quran itself)). And its one of the only books I've read in which if you've read 10 pages, you've pretty much read all of it, because its so repetative and even the new content that is sometiems introduced is just not worth it, and sometimes whole stories are repeated just in different words. 
	The five pillars of islam are acceptance of allah as the one true god and as prophet muhammad as his messenger, five daily prayers, charity to the poor, fasting, and atleast once in a lifetime pilgrimage to mecca. From a purely natural selection and game theoretic approach to the religion, one can see that it has all the things needed to succeed. The first one is vital to its survival, the second one have a solid hold on the person, the third one and fourth one are one of those extra things thrown in so that people will buy into it, and the last one is something people could aspire to. There is of course the spreading aspect, which is essential for any idea to survive, otherwise it shall just die off with the generation. Throughout the book its said to spread the faith, and this is seen as a magnanimous and kind thing on their part as they are saying people from the fire on the last day. There's the typical respect elders especially parents stuff which is vital to the spread of the faith to chlidren, especially when young, you've got to get them when they're young. There is also the fear part to keep people in line, and monitor even their thoughts so that people get afraid to even question their beliefs thinking that it will upset their gods, so that they don't ever critcal think and blindly belive.
	Also the depiction of god is really lame, and rather stupid. But none of that matters, its all lies and bullshit so why bother with it. There are parts which seem reasonable, but only in comparison, for example whlie pork is forbidden, eating it unwittingly will be forgived. While this might seem reasonable, the rule itself is rather silly and shouldn't be there in the first place. In comparism to the old testament, most of which I read, this is pretty lacking in content and is an even more illeterate version of it. Lastly muslims say stuff like islam is the fastest growing religion in the world, like thats a good thing. As in as though people are converting to it, because of its merits, but its really because most of them are illeterate as fuck people who breed like rabbits and have a shitton of children.
	To end I'd just like to say that none of it matters, it could have been the best book in the world, but still thats no reason to follow it as the truth. But its not even a good book, that's what gets me, and so many people follow it. Its a really shitty book, just read ten pages and you'll know how shitty it is. bah.
