Rebecca is a novel by Dame Daphne du Maurier. Its mostly for a teenage audience, and was probably what people meant when they refered to trashy novels. 
	Its set in the 1940s period and follows the protagonist, a young lady in her early twenties. She is a paid companion to a rich old lady, and finds her dreadfully boring, and fake. She is often embarassed by her behaviour, especially her obsequious behaviour toward people above her social class, and also her familiarity people she has just met. While staying with her in a hotel in Monte Carlo, they run into De Winter, a rich man, who owns Manderly, which is one of the most reknown estates, and considered as one of the most beautiful houses in the country. Its let known that he has been recently widowed. The protagonist is impressed by him, and he her. Hence she finds it particularly painful when her mistress accousts him with her usual familiarity. However the mistress is soon put out of the way, but a bout of some illness. This gives ample opportunity for the two to get to know each other, and fall in love, with a non chalant proposal by De WInter, when the protagonist tells him that she hsa to leave to go to New York. Through this period she plays the role of a little innocent girl, who at the same time has depth. De Winter is also attracted to her innocence and her frank air.
	They get married quitely, and honeymoon for a few months. However they eventually return to Manderly, Max's hosue. The Mrs. is naturally timid and is nervousness about her reception at the house, her lack of breeding causing her intense anxiety and trepidation. She is also haunted by the dead wife of Max's who was reknowned as the most beautiful and savoir faire of people, who would get along with everyone. She is afraid she can't live up to the high standards set by her and is always conscious of her own social failings. Her first interview with the household servents doesn't go very well, with the housekeep Mrs Danvers, behaving very coldly. As she starts settling in, she see's Max in his natural element and feels out of place, all alone, when he goes out, and akward with the servents, and not knowing how to dispose of her time. She starts exploring the area around the building, gong on walks. However her interaction with Mrs Danvers gets more and more wierd and she instead of asserting her role as boss, lets Mrs Danvers treat her badly. Meanwhile she meets her sister in law, who is very frank, and is a good judge of people. She also goes out with her to visit Max's grandma. However things take a bad turn when the old lady who is not in full possession of her mental faculties starts asking for Rebecca. In Manderly the protagonist also forms a close bond with Frank the estate manager. She feels that she can relate to him and that he is kind to her. She asks him a few questions about Rebecca which he reluctantly answers.
	One day when Max's has gone off to London, she goes out for a walk, and on the way back notices someone in the west side of the house. It turks out that its Rebecca's cousin whom Mrs Danvers had let in. She doesn't like his manners and his familiarity and is glad when he goes away. She checks out the place where he was standing and finds out that that is the old room of Rebecca, with all her goods preserved in near perfect condition. Mrs Danvers enters and starts acting creepy. Some people recommend that there should be a fancy dress ball as there used to be when Rebecca was alive. Max refuses to dress up, but the protagonist, claiming that she will surprise everyone, takes it very seriously. She is however at a loss as to what to wear, and is very desperate, when Mrs Danvers recommends dressing up as one of the paintings in the house. She immediately takes to the idea. and goes for the painting recomended by Mrs Danvers itself, and orders the costume. However she is extremely upset when everyone freaks out on the night of the ball, because it was the same costume work b Rebecca during her last ball. She is very upset with Mrs Danvers. She however puts on a smile and changes and goes back down to entertain the guests. Howver she feels that Max is disappointed in her. The next day he has gone out for an early walk, when the protagonist feeling bold, especially due to last nights events, decides to confront Mrs Danvers in Rebecca's room. However Mrs Danvers plays some wierd mind games, and almsot convinces the protagonist to suicide. However a bell rining in the nick of time saves her, and then everything becomes almost mechanical. 
	A ship has been stranded in the cove. Everyone plays their assigned duties. The events of the previosu day are forgotten. While a diver dives to check the ship, for a problem, she finds the boat in which Rebecca was drowned. Then it is found that her body was in the cabin, which was locked, and so the body identified last year, but Max was the wrong one. Max is distressed by this event, and confesses the true nature of his relationship with Rebecca, to his wife, and admits that it was all a sham, and that he killed her. Being the psycho bitch that she is, she is happy that he loves her and not rebecca, and considers his story as more of an afterthought. She decides to stand by him and support him. The inquest soon begins, and the coronor is about to close the case as an accident, but the boat manufacturer gives evidence that the boat was tampered with and was made to sink, and that it wasn't an accident. However the case is then closed as a suicide.
	Max and his wife are happy thinking that its all over now, but then Rebecca's cousin shows up and blackmains them for money claiming that he shall expose the murder, if he's not paid. However Max calls the magistrate who comes to the house to look into the matter. When asked to prove his claim, the cousin calls the idiot forward, but he isn't much of a halp. Next he calls Mrs Danvers to give testimony, and give the truth about Rebecca. ITs then found out by the magistrate about the true nature of Rebecca, and suspicion starts to fall on Max. Its soon found that on the day she died Rebecca had an appointment with someone in London, which even MRs Danvers didn't know about. They resolve upon finding the person to determine the truth. Till then the Magistrate doesn't quite trust Max and is afraid that he shall abscond given the chance, and so Mrs Danvers locks Max's room after he goes to bed to ensure that he doesn't escape. They soon set out for the Dr's who happened to be the person whom rebecca had visited. Then its found that Rebecca had a fatal painful illenesss, and so the Magistrate finds the case for suicide more plausible and so they head back, without doubting Max anymore.
	However by the time Max and his wife go back to Manderly Mrs Danvers is gone and the place is ablaze. They spend the rest of their lives in foreign hotels, the smaller ones so as to not run into accquaintances. 
	The book was readable, but didn't really have much going for it as a thriller. The plot twists were mediocere at best and things could be seen from quite far away. The buildup to Rebecca being a bad person was a failure  because everyone could see that clearly, due to the evidance presented. However it was okay for a one time read, and might be a better read for teenagers. It did have a few observations which were rather nice, and maybe if were a century older, it might have been better. Total Number of pages ~400. Rating 6.5/10.
