This book is by Ivan Turgenev. Its not very long, but still manages to potray a host of characters, all brought out excellently.
The book opens by introducing side lady one, who makes a very superficial visit to one of her dying (i think serf) and can't seem to get out fast enough. Outside she quickly forgetes about the dying woman, and is lost deep in thought, at which point main man 2 (M2) comes in and makes some small talk. side lady one is pretty and rich enough, and M2 is considered smart and eccentric. Soon after he leaves, side man 1 enters. He is a kept man of main lady 1, who is quite old and is a self proclaimed patron of artists and intellectuals. side man and side lady walk along side by side for some time, and side man 1 invites side lady 1 on behalf of main lady.
this is getting exhausting, shall make it more short.
So that afternoon everyone gathers at main lady's house, side lady one, side lady 1's brother and a pet of the main lady, who is supposed to be intellectual, due to his cynicism, and whom she patronizes. They wait upon a baron who is suppsed to come, bringing some cleaver treatise, but who never shows. They eventually half lucnh, and just when they are thinking about dispersing, Rudin shows up on the baron's behalf. Everyone is soon impressed by his charisma and his apparently great talking skills, and he holds everyone enchanted, especially the younger ones. The main lady takes it upon herself to patronize him, and invites him to come the next day as well. The only person unsatisfieid with Rudin is main lady's pet who is sour, since rudin put him down and took his spot as the intellectual. 
The next day, while rudin's at main lady's house, M2 shows up, and made known that rudin and he, know each other, and based on the interaction, it was not a good acquaintance. M2 is rather distinct, and is not very respectful of main lady. However later on M2 tells side lady 1 that rudin although eloquent, is not original, instead possessing the ability to pick up the esspetial ideas from books, and although he means well, hes a kind of fraud, and there's something missing with him. However side lady 1 is too taken with rudin to give him up that easily, and she asks him to reconsider. 
For the next few weeks rudin is a regular visitor at main lady's and she finds him indispensible, at least for entertainment. However main lady's daughter, soon grows to like rudin. Once rudin finds out about this, he too delcares his love for her. Later it turns out that he doesn't realy love her, although he meant to, and she is quite let down by rudin's character, she finally ends up marrying side lady's brother, and side lady marries M2, and rudin goes away in sudo disgrace. M2 gives a back story which sheds further ligth on Rudin's character as a person.
I'm stopping here, God this summary is awful, and i don't find it in me to continue this traversty. Just go read the book. its really quite nice. Rating 9/10. Approx no of pages 200.

