This is a book by Yuval Noah Harari. It is very lightweight, but had all the things
that make a good non fiction/pop sci book, although not to a magnitude desirable.
The writing itself was captivating, making it hard for me to put down the book, even
though I had other things to do(or maybe it was just because of that). I'd definitely
recommend it to everyone, as its one of those books, whose contents, everyone should
at least be familar with, for 'spritual' reasons.
The book is divided into roughly four parts, each dealing with a different leg
in our history. Although a lot has been sensationalized, thats the price one pays
while writing a popular sciene novel, if they want good sales. The first part talks
about the cognative revolution, wherein out of all the different homo species
running around, some such as the neanderthals being better than us, both physically
and mentally, something rather tiny changed in our(sapiens) internal wiring, which
had a drastic impact on our life, and societies, allowing us to cooperate and be
abstract (believing make belief). The first part largely studies the consequences
for that as yet unknown change in our wiring which set us down the current line
of history where we dominate the earth.
The second part focuses on the agricultural revolution/ the events leading up to it,
why it was inevitable, despite its reducing the quality of life of the people partaking
in it, and finally what restricted it.
We are then lead through the unification of human kind, whereby the restrictions during the agricultural revolution, being caused mainly due to inefficient representations
of information (namely the human mind) were increasingly replaced with more trustworthy
information retrival systems, allowing empires to grow larger and larger, till now
we have almost a single world economy.
Lastly the author talks about the scientific revolution, about how science, progress
and capatilism have always enjoyed a symbiotic relationship, and how through science
 and the discovery of ignorance, we have made remarkable strides, which just like
 the agricultural revolution might be inevitable, despite not increasing human
 happiness, but actually wiping us out.
Again, felt like it was written for a less advanced audience (namely the masses).
Good pop sci books should allow people at different levels to take away different
amounts of information from the book. This capped off at the higher levels.
Approx no of pages:~500. Rating 8/10.(mostly because the writing was good)
