This is a book by DH Lawrence. Its deviates from other books of the period, in that it focuses on the parent child relationship as well. Although it falls short of the promise of a full blown oedipus complex, it still develops its charactors in a nice dramatic way. However it goes into too much detail, vastly over playing human non verbal communication, and our capacity of appreciating subtlety as seen in the constant exchanges between the main characters. Everything is overanalyzed, oftentimes by the characters themselves, again vastly overplaying human reflective capacity (and confusing it with obsession, which doesn't necessarily make us super reflective, but rather just obsessive).
	A young woman, marries a man, attracted by his charm, and easy grace. However she soon finds him hollow, and can't really respect him, although for a few more years she loves him. He is a miner, and she a daughter of a merchant(I think). A year into the marriage she finds that he is not the most fiscally responsible person, and so she takes over management of the household finances. Gradually her respect for him keeps on wearing away. She finds that she doesn't know a lot of things about him, which she finds out due to the slip up of the neighbours, for example, that he is a good dancer, and that he indulges in the ossacional drink. However soon this  begins to take over his life and he is soon an alcoholic, although his restricting himself mainly to beer preserves his health, and he is not too bad off. Soon she gets pregnant and their first child is born. The name him William. They have two more children, the second one a girl, Annie, and the last one Paul. All the time their relationship continues to deteriorate, and at oen points she stops loving him completely, and all tender feelings for him vanish. 
	She devotes herself to her children, doting on them, especially favouring the eldest. Paul is a sickly child, and needs special attention. He is devoted to his mother. The children grow up in a disfunctional household, terrified of their father, especially when he is drunk, and that plays a major role in shaping their future selves. William becomes a success, and goes to become a clerk in London. There he continues to work hard and study, hoping for further progress. However he meets a vain and frivolous girl, and is very taken with her, and they soon get engaged. However after the intial passion cools down, he starts resenting her, but feels that it has gone too far to pull out now. Before their marriage however, he catches some disease and dies. 
	This brings about a major change in Paul's mother. She is heartbroken, and absent. Paul who craves her attention is left disappointed. A few months after the death of his mother he falls sick, and that drags his mother back to reality, and realizes that she has been neglecting her living children for her dead one, and she nuses Paul back to health, and Paul considers his sickness a blessing in disguise.
	The father is growing timid with age, but is more out of control when drunk. However he stops being such a huge influence on his kids, now that they are all grown up. Paul gets a job in a neighbouring town, as an assistant in a cloth making company. This responsibility also changes him. During his childhood he looks upon his mother as the picture of perfection, and dotes on her, and lives to please her. However as he goes about the world, and intracts with the coquety work girls in the shop, she loses some of her hold over him. He still heavily depends on her though. Around the time he becomes a young adult, and starts painting, he starts visiting a neighbouring farm, and spends a lot of time with a girl there, Miriam. Their's is a strange relationship, spent mostly in talk, an contrary to general loves at that age, its more a romance of the mind than of lust. However Paul's blood occasionally gets all aflame, and he starts demanding more of her. They go through a convoluted on again off again relationship, and he also starts seeing her friend Clara, who is much prettier than Miriam and also 5 years older than Paul. The death of his mother leaves him deeply scarred. He destroyes both of his relationships, and in the end breaks the bridge to Miriam which he used to think unbreakable and his fallback is also taken away from him. The story ends with him a broken man.
	It was a decent read, but nothing exceptional about it. Rating 8/10. Approx number of pages ~400.

