This is a novel by Thomas Hardy. Having read return of the native by the same author, I had expected very powerful descriptions of the rural landscape, and I was not disappointed. My only problem with this novel is that the premise that the plot of this novel is based on, seems rather foolish. One nice aspect of the novel was that it focuses on actual poor people, unlike most other works which focus disproportionately on the landed class. The scenes of simple pleasure of pastoral life, and being high on life itself in such an environment, were especially good.
Tess is the daughter of a poor man, who finding himself one day to be a lineal descendant of the d'Urberville line, one of the greatest families in briton, lets it go to his head, and give himselevs airs. The night that he comes by this knkowledge, happening to coincide with the night of his having to go to town to sell honey at the morning market, and the former leading him to get drunk, and the latter being an absolute necessasity, leads to Tess being forced to take the cart down to town. She sets off with her younger brother, and after a few miles dozes off. Meanwhile the horse strays to the wrong side of the road, and in the misty night, the hurrying mailcart passing in the opposite direction, rams into the horse, impaling it upon one of is shafts, leading to it slowly bleeding out. This wakes Tess up, and she is horrified with her negligence, and blames herself for this disaster. 
Once back home, she bows to pressure from her mother to apply to their richer relatives for assistance, now that their main source of income has died. Feeling guilty she reluctantly agrees, and sets off to the house of one of the dUrbervilles who live in the neighbourhood. THere instead of meeting the lady of the house, she meets his son, a bold flirt, who is quite taken with Tess. He quite shamelessly hits on her, and later on even makes her a job offer, making it seem as though it came through his mother. Still feeling guilty, Tess accepts, and takes up her situation in this house, although it turns out that this family don't belong to the actual dUrbervilles, but have simply taken the name, having money but laking the bloodlines. Tess settles in and establishes a routine at her new station. One night while walking back from a neighbouring town, she finds herself alone with her 'cousin' and they end up having sex.
The next day itself Tess quits and heads back home. However she finds herself pregnant, and is rather despondent for quite some time. However her youth and time get the better of her, and she comes out into the world again. Her chlid dies while still on the suck, and so she finds that constraint removed, although she deeply mourns his death.
Determinated to make money and pay back her family, she takes up work as a milkmaid in a sufficiently far away village. No on there recognizes her. There she meets the son of one of the owners of the farm, and they both fall in love. However she is afraid to tell him about her past, and keeps refusing to marry him, telling him that its for his own good. However he thinking that its because of her low station in life that she is behaving in this way, tries to persuade her that he doesn't care about such things, without realizing that he is completely missing the mark. However continued wooing weakens her stand, until it finally breaks and she accepts him, damning herself in the process. Through the term of their engagement, she is plagued by uncertainity in her position, resulting in bouts of moody behaviour. Her fiance writes it off to her temperment, and doesn't make much of it. They get married after a prolonged engagement.
A few days into their marriage, she finally decides to tell him about her secret. However before she tells him about herself, he tells her that he had had a fling with a women before their marriage. Relived that he too has digressed, she tells him about her child, and her one night stand. However he is completely, rather hypocritically, upset and feels that she has first trapped him by marriage and has done him a grevious injustice. ANd so they separate. Tess goes back to her parents, while he goes to become a colonial farmer in brazil. 
Tess meanwhile gets work at another farm, and begins hard labour there. However her former lover finds her there, after they meet on the road, and claims himself to be a changed man, who has now turned to religion. However in Tesss presence he loses all his religious fevour, and begins lusting after her again. Ironically it is Tess's husband's agnostic views that drive him off the religous bandwagon. Tess refuses and after her tenure is over, runs back home. Meanwhile her father has died and since he was the last signee on the lease, they rest of the family are evicted. Still lusting after tess, he finds her again, and offers the family a home. He goes on to town with Tess, and sets up board. 
Meanwhile her husband, after nearly two years, is back to Briton, severly weakend by disease caused in that unwelcome climate. He repents of his treatment of tess and wants to make ammends. He begins looking for her and finally finds her holed up with her former lover. He walks away after that. However Tess deeply moved and regretting her actions kills her lover and runs away to her husband. They spend nearly a week in hiding, but finally get caught near stone hendge. She is taken away and later executed.
Other than the plot, and premise the novel was very nice. One thing that stuck with me was the casual, she walked 15 miles, thrown in here and there, as though it wasn't something exceptinal to walk that distance twice in the same day. Beautiful description of rustic life, smattered about here and there, good author, definitely worth a read. Shall read another one of his works soon. Apporx no of pages ~400. Rating 8/10.
