This is a book by Thomas Hardy. Its been almost a year since I read it so I'm a little hazy on the details. However my impression of the book seems to be largely intact. This is not one of thomas hardy's better books, nor is it one of his worse ones. I did quite enjoy some of the passages and some of the characters. The characters seem full of life, and not just two dimensional beings, who serve only to further the plot. That seems to be one of Hardy's strong suits.  

Henchard arrives with his wife at a new town seeking work, along with their infant daughter. However they end up arriving on the day of the year, when a lage market is held and Henchard goes to a tent and ends up getting drunk. True to his character, he ends up getting roused, and taking it out on his wife, and on a whim sells her to another man, a sailor who takes Henchard up on his offer. The sailor leaves with Henchard's wife, who being proud, decides to go with him, and takes her daughter
along. Henchard, upon sobering up realizes the terrible thing he's done 
he's done and searches everywhere for his wife. However he fails to find them, and in a fit of passion, vows to never touch drink for the next 21 years. Meanwhile he becomes industries and soon makes a name for himself, and we meet him again, after almost two decades, as the mayor of the town where he lost his wife and daughter. He has decided to stay back, so that if his wife decides to find him again, she will come back to the place where they initially parted.
Meanwhile his daughter has grown up, and his wife decides that it's time to come back to her husband. On the same night, Henchard, now middle aged, meets a young man from Scotland, who manages to enchant him with his charisma. He is seeking to make his fortune in the new world, but Henchard tries to pursuade him to stay. Henchard and his wife decide to keep up a ruse of being distinct relatives, which shall eventually lead to a courtship and a sham marriage, for appearances sake.
However soon after the marriage she dies. Meanwhile Henchard who initially wanted to get to know his daughter better, soon learns that she is not his own, but the sailors, and grows cold towards her. She is quite struck with this marked change of attitude and is despondent, believing herself to be a burden. Meanwhile the young Scot has been a very good pick, and is almost universally beloved. He has lead to a marked improvement in Henchard's business. Lucietta, another woman, with whom
Henchard had been close, upon hearing of his wife's death, decides to try to hitch him. However upon coming into town, she learns that she prefers the young Scot. Jane, his daughter and Farfrae are in the down of a courtship, however Henchard's sudden change of attitude towards Farfrae puts an end to that. 

Meanwhile Jane moves in with Lucietta, and serves as her companion. Henchard, regretful of his initially behaviour towards his wifes daugther, decides to atone for what he has done. He also tries to marry Lucietta, but upon learning that she is enamoured by Farfrae, is furious. He makes a few characteristic bad decisions in his haste, and soon loses all his hard earned property. Meanwhile Farfrae has used his natural instict, and grown a successful business. He soon marries Lucietta.
Henchard ends up working for  Farfrae out of desperation, and one day makes an attempt on his life. Being physically much superiour to Farfrae he soon has him in a position in which he can extract his revenge, and kill him, but at the last moment, lets him go, sparing his life. Disgraced he goes away. Lucietta's affair with Henchard comes to light, due to a letter of Lucietta's being intercepted and the town people put on a show,  about Lucietta and Henchard, when Farfrae is away. The
shock to her system kills Lucietta. However Farfrae never finds out about the affair. Jane chooses to live with her father in poverty, and for the first time in his life, Henchard finds satisfaction in the presence of his adopted daughter. However one day, her real sailor father comes into Henchard's hut and asks him whether he knows where his daughter is. Henchard fearful of losing the only thing that keeps him happy, lies to him. Soon Jane's and Farfrae are once again drawn  together
and end up getting married. Jane learns about her true father, and Henchard's deciet, and turns her back to him. Henchard, an old man now, goes away. Jane and Farfrae set out to find him, being ready to forgive him for his past transgressions. However they find out that he has died alone, and that his last wish was for them to forget him.

This poignant ending goes well with Henchard's disposition. The writing never forgets the kind of person that Henchard is, a man controlled by his emotions, who feels extremes of anger and indignation as well as pain and suffering. However sadly for him, most of his life is spent in the former state, which leads to several bad decisions at critical junctions in his life. His daughter Jane is however a rather bland character, with a very generic outlook and behaviour, characteristic of
most of the female characters in books of the 19th century. She is a largely passive character, and lives most of her life that way. The other female, lucietta is more spirited, and exemplifies the boy hungry type of women, and is largely well written. However Hardy's best female character (in my opinion of course) was the one in Jude the Obscure. Farfrae is also a very believable character, especially the scene on the loft, where he loses to Henchard, being much weaker than him, shows
that he is not a caricature of a Hero, in which the Hero is infinitely superiour to all around him, be it physically, emotionally or when it comes to intelligence. The scene in which he fights with Henchard, and a few other titbits thrown here and there show his imperfection, which are acknowledged despite his natural charisma, which makes him a much more believable character.There are some scenes which make you want to just grab the character and shake them in frustration, but
that can only happen if we identify with the character to some extent, so thats another testament to Hardy's writing.
Overall the book was a good read, although I would recommend some of Hardy's other books, especially for a first brush with his writing. However a fan of Hardy's won't find too much to complain about here. Approx number of page ~ 350. Rating 7/10.
