This is a book by Fyodor Dostoevsky. It is considered by many to be his magnum opus, but I think I liked his Demons better (its been a really long time since I read that so not sure though). Some of the characters in his other books like the Idiot are also better than those here. Although he is a good writer, and his characters are mostly well fleshed out, I never understood all the hype about him. His characters while good, never really reached the level of Pierre or Prince Audrey
from War and Peace. I also found some other Russian authors better in terms of writing, such as Rudin or Dead Souls. There the flow of the book feels better and the story line more plausible. In this book, a few scenes are particularly striking and memorable, but overall I didn't find any character really very compelling. This is probably because it is much more closely rooted in reality than other books (except Tolsty), and differs from Tolsty in that it deals with the more banal
characters which other authors generally don't like dealing with. For example while the frivolity of some of the women who are mothers/wives to the main characters when compared between this book and War and Peace, while both feel real, they are handled differently and The Brothers arguably makes the better depiction. The depiction of the Father, and the gambling scene of the eldest brother, and the trial scenes were also very memorable. The speeches given at the trial very especially
clever and had me enthralled, and fully invested. 
The Brothers is the story of a disfunctional family, with an irresponsible negligent and eventually abusive, jealous father and his three sons. The sons all grown up, come back to visit him. There are several concommitant storylines being followed, as we follow each of the brothers. Another important aspect of the storyline are two women, and their interaction with the brothers. Given the relatively small number of characters and the large book size, they are all
well fleshed out with several scenes prominantly featuring each. The cat fight between these two women, as well as their hysterical reactions are very well handled and quite memorable. The eldest son, a Captian feels a sense of duty towards one but loves the other. The secondborn, an intellectual, ends up loving the former women. The love triangle is handled without feel too love triangly. The third son, who is sworn for priesthood, undergoes a series of insights which is also
well handled. Eventually the father ends up murdered. The eldest is suspected, but it turns out that its the bastard son whom everyone thought an imbecile, who is the really culprit. As I write this, I'm reminded of several interesting reactions of different characters to different events, and now recall what it is that I liked about this book.
I read this book twice as well, and found that I had completely forgotten the main plot by the time of the second reading. So it was still a pleasurable experience. Most people will probably enjoy the book. It is very readable and is a page turner. Approx no of pages 800. Rating 9/10.
