This is a book by Victor Hugo. It is extremely long, and rather dry. It is also overly dramatized, and the characters are hard to treat as real. But this latter part is seems almost deliberate, and is the reason of the author deliberately driving the characters to the extreme, rather than due to an overly simplistic 2D character development as seem in mainstream film(I'm thinking of Marvel here). I didn't like it the first time I read it, sometime in high school, but a more
recent reading last year made me appreciate the style a little more. It is rather unique in its style, when compared to the usual things I read, and while this leads to it getting a little tedious most of the time, it does have its redeaming qualities as well. The tangents the author goes on, are sometimes conducive to the reading experience if one is in the mood for it.
While the overall plot doesn't ask for the massive book, its mostly the authors desultry way of developing it which results in the size blowup.
Jean, the protagonist for most of the work, is a man from the peasant class, who has been imprisioned for the trivial offence of stealing bread. His prison sentence (intially 5 years (probably)) was extended by around four hundred percent due to his numerous attempts at escape. Once his time has been served, he finds that society is not willing to accept him, a dangerous convict. This puts him into a kind of animal state, and although worn done by long ill use, is submissive, he still
harbors the spirit of a thug. However a random act of kindness, which is especially fortutious given his circumstance, by a kindly austere bishop has a drastic impact on him. The change that this kindness, so alien to him, brings about is so sudden and drastic, he normally being blase to asperity, leads him to try belying its true effect, driving him to commit a negligible act of theft against a child. He soon comes out of the sort of stupor he is in, and tries to go after the kid
to return his coin to him, but is unable to find him. We meet Jean a few years later, now a respectable man, the Mayor of an industrial town, whose sole cause of prosperity is his clever invention in the manufacturing process. He is widely well regarded by the townsfolk with a few legends about his extra ordinary strength and fortitude. However his general reserve and taciturm nature don't serve to endear him to the elite. At around this time, a young girl, misled by false
promises, has a daughter, and unable to care properly for her, and fearing social censure, gives her up to be raised by another family, upon promise of a certain fixed monthly payment. She comes to work in the factory in Jean's town. However the family who are in charge of the daughter make stronger and stronger demands, and soon lead the lady to ruin. She is eventually removed from her position, once others find out about her situation. She eventually dies, but by this time
Jean is acquainted with her situation, and takes a personal interest in her case, especially as she lays blame upon him her life being in ruins(being under the mistaken assumption that her termination from the factory was his fault). (The rest is very quickly summarized).
Jean meanwhile learns that another man is suspected of being him, and is going to be convicted for his past crimes. He attends the trial, and at the last minute steps forward and offers himself up. He then heads back to his town, but decides to run away. He collects the lady's daughter Fantine, on the way, and they two of them abscond. Initially they live in peace for some time, but soon Inspector Javert, whose has a personal grudge, finds them out. They barely escape, and end up
in an all female nunnery where Fantine spends a couple of years with Jean posing as the gardener's brother. They eventually get their own place, and get into a routine of going for a walk and spending some time in a park every evening. Fantine now all grown up, attracts the attention of a young man, who surrepetiously stalks them. 
We are made privy to his story. He is well off, but due to a split with his wealthy grandfather who was his primary support, is now in penury, being too proud to apologize. He bears his new poverty in righteous indignation, as he feels offended by his grandfather's nonchalant derisive denigrating remarks about his late father, and their political disagreements. There is some drama in the middle. There is a small scale civil war, in which the buy thinking his love hopeless tries to
drown himself in, but Jean saves him in the last moment. All is happy in the end, and the boy and girl marry. Javery kills himself.
The main downside of this book is the slow pace. Unlike War and Peace, which has comparable size, and a rather desultry development as well, there are very few characters to focus on, with 4-5 main characters unlike war and peace which has probably over 20 important characters, and probably a hundred minor ones. If one can get past the slow pace, it is really a unique read, and offers something new to the reader. Approx no of pages 1300. Rating 8/10.
