This is a book by Stephen King. It is one of his longer books, but never really feels stale. The style is characteristic of King's writing, and the pace and tone is quite similar to several of his other books. The progression of the story is also similar to other books of his such as IT, which also has comparable length. It is an enjoyable read, and can be used as a plate cleanser between two other more serious reads.
The story begins by introducing us to some of the main characters, and quickly bringing in the plague which sweeps across the country. The first four hundred pages or so, mostly deal with the plague and its effect on the main characters of the story. This is some really good writing, where King brings out his natural talents in creating the right atmosphere. 
After this we go along with the characters trying to find their way in the new world order. That's when elements of the supernatural is first hinted at, and slowly creeps in. The dark man, begins haunting peoples dreams, with an intermitten comforting dream by the old women creeping in. Most of our main characters are drawn towards this old woman, and on their way to her, find each other, and band together. 
Soon they begin forming a community, and we are made privy to them trying to figure out things work, be it politics or technology. However the presence of the dark man cannot be ignored. He grows stronger every day, and might soon come to conquer them all. The newly elected governing committe decides to send in some spies surreptitiously, two of whom are caught, and only a half wit manages to make it back. Meanwhile the old woman, comes back from her haitus in the woods and commands
some of the men to go as they are to the enemy territory. The four choosen men set out, but one of them gets injured on the way and stops midway. The other three manage to make it in, and are captured. Just when they are about to be executed, one of the dark man's disciples comes in with an atomic bomb and being out of his wits blows all of them up, thus ending the rein of the dark man before it begins. The man left behind manages to make it back to the base camp along with the
remaining spy, and they all live happily ever after (unless they fuck it up again).
PS:The plague is called Captain Tripps by most of the survivours and was created by the US government.

Nothing much to add, other than than the fact that its a class Stephen Kings novel, which though written rather hastily and not very well thought out, is a page turner, and keeps the reader entertained. His ability to give his characters depth and getting the reader to sympathize with them, is almost unique in his genre of mass market books. While I would recommend some of his more famous, but shorter books like The Shining ( which is also a beautiful piece of writing), if one
just wants a taste of his writing, I wouuld recommend this to any Stephen King fan. While most other popular authors are like movie makers, who are willing to go the extra mile to squeeze every last bit of juice out of their writing, Stephen King is more like a TV producer, who understands that sometimes the audience just want quantity and won't relly care about that extra percentage point of quality as long as they have access to more content. While this reduced effort in his
books does show, it doesn't really detract much from the reading experience.
Approx number of pages ~ 1300. Rating 8/10.
