The prince is a super old book by Niccolo Machiavelli. It is quite short, and is worth a read, although it seems a bit overrated, and mostly common sensical, although some ideas were good. Atleast he keeps it straight and doesn't deal excessively with morality, instead focusing only on what has to be done to stay in power, rather than what should be done in an idealistic setting which would have been rather naive.
Since the book talks about a variety of topics, all relating to the different circumstances that a prince might encounter, I shall only briefly describe my feelings on the book without going into the details. It directly advises a prince as to how to deal with certain matters, for example telling him to either not hurt someone, or to hurt them greviously enough so that they can't strike back. He also talks about what makes invasions or conspiracies to overthrow someone successful, and how they can be prevented. Instead of advising the prince to not have vices at all, since he says that that is inevitable and that if need be, people shall just make up vices to support their claims, it is better to be discreet about it. He also says that being loved is not enough and fear is also an essential criterion for good government. He also advises conquerors to settle in their newly conquered kingdom as that will drastically increase their chances of continual possession of it, since otherwise any government they set up might be overthrown. The treatment of churches as centers of power was probably a different treatment of the topic than that given by his contemporaries, and so .respect.. He advises maintaining one's own troops as they are far more loyal, and he is of the opinoin that mercenaries are useless in a war, as they have no incentive to fight. Princes should also be parsimonious rather than liberal, as the censure that they shall receive in this regard will only be temporary and the lessened taxes, as well as the prosperity of the state shall ensure that parsimonity will be rewarded in the long run. He even recommends the use of lies and manipulation, as a kind of guile which is a must have for a prince, since one must be like a lion as well as a fox, the former being corageous and powerful but helpless against traps, while the latter is not. The prince should not be hated or even worse held in contempt as then that opens up the possibility for internal insurrection, and he can easily be overthrow by a foreign enemy who shall use his own people against him. Finally he talks about how fortune, although it sometimes plays a role, can oftentimes be thwarted in its plans, by means of careful planning.
I had fun reading it, and liked his style(even through the translation) and so on that ground itself would recommend it. It even makes you think about things, and given that it is so small the time investment is totally worth it. I didn't like him coming out servenile at times, although that was the whole goal of the book, it was unbecoming. Rating 4/5. Approx number of pages 100
