This is a book by Hemmingway. It has a nice, unique tone to it, which is refreshing.
The story follows the protagonist Jake, through a period of his life, which seems especially chaotic, and which finds him dissatisfied with his life, torn between love and fate holding him back.
The novel opens with a chapter describing the character and temper of a Cohn, a rich college graduate Jew, unmemorable and rather timid especially in the start. He is a friend of Jake's and they play tennis together. Cohn is American. He is dissatisfied with Paris and wants to go to South America having got romantic notions about it after reading a book aimed at teenagers and twenty somethings.
Jake tells him that its not worth going to South America, and that Spain is more hsi thing. Later on Jake goes for a drink after his work(as an editor), and runs into a prostitute. Feeling lonely, he signals for her, and they go out for dinner. Jake discourages the latter's advances, and cites sickness as the reason, although its mostly because he is rather down and a little in love. 
In the hotel, they run across a gang of Jake's friends, and Jake presents her to them has hsi fiance. They all go for a dance, and there he runs into his old flame Brett. He takes off with her after having left the prostitute money, conditional to her not going off with any of the other membors of the party, especially one of the young men Brett was with. They both take a cab to get a drink, and the kiss, and then break off, with Brett seemingly repulsed by the act, and yet craving it, telling him that she loves him. Their relationship is rather painful, and there is a sense of a terrible misfortune, pain on both sides in its history.
Cohn is sick of his partner, and his relatively mild fame, and his experiences with women in New York go to his head and he becomes quite unbearable. He breaks it off with her and is quite taken with Brett, who is supposed to be breathtakingly beautiful. They go off for a few days.
Before this, Jake and brett run into the count, a wealthy man, with a loose purse, who is also quite taken with Brett. He lives to live life to the fullest, without sparing a seconds consideration about money. After a few days with Brett he offers to take her away, but she refuses, and prefers to stay with Jake. 
Soon Jake goes to Spain for his usual fishing trip, the event of which coinciding with the start of the bull fighting season is an added incentive. Brett and her now fiance Mike tag along. So does Cohn and another friend of Jakes. These last three head on ahead, while Brett and Mike decide to catch up later. Cohn opts to wait for Brett, while the remaining two go on. They spend a week of peace and quiet, catching fish, and enjoying nature.
They then go back to town (still in Spain) and meet Brett and Mike. Cohn catches up with them. The bull fight week, the fiesta is supposed to begin in a few days, and they laze around till then. They get drunk and into fights, Jake's friend always taking shots at Cohn, who has become intolerable by now with his smugness and his pride at having 'gone off' with Brett for a week. However it is made clear that Brett doesn't like him. Once Jake and his friend get into a fight with Cohn, and they are beat down as a result of his proficiency at boxing. Once the fiesta starts they all drink like fishes, ensuring each others tightness, and aiming for blindness. The fiesta brings in people from the country and all sorts of wanders, and everyone has a swell time. The crowd is a living thing, and one only has to go along with it, fighting against it being an impossibility. They seem to thrive in that atmosphere, especially when 'tight'. Brett gets along fabulously with everyone, her remarkable beauty breaking away the formalities.
Once the bull fighting starts, Jake runs into an acquaintance of his, who considers himself to be a connoisseur of bullfighting. He considers Jake to be of a similar caliber, but knowingly smiles at his friends naivety on the topic.
Once the main events begin, there is a clear star in the rink, whos skill and dexterity, his agility are something which is nothing short of beautiful. Just watching him gives Jake a senes of exhilaration and admiration. Through him, Brett comes to fall in love with the Bull Fighter Romero. They are very passionate. However people dislike the affair since they don't want Romero to be distracted.
Eventually seeing the ill effects that she has on Romero, and upon his offer of marriage, she sends him away. Cohn unable to bear the jelously goes away, the the remainder of the party think good riddance.
After sending Romero away, Brett wires Jake to come to her, and confides her feelings upon him. They again have that on again off again moment, and this time Brett conclusively says that they are not meant to be.
Later that night Jake is feeling a deep meloncholy, there being a hole in his heart, which it seems impossible to fill.
This is a rather short book, and a little different in its presentation. I quite liked it, and would definitely recommend it. Rating 9/10. Approx number of pages: 220.
