This book is a classic by F Scott Fitzgerald. It follows a guy, the protagonist, through his early years, of school and college, and life after college. Its got a nice vibe going for it. It was a nice read.
	The book starts off by introducing the protagonist amory, in this pre teen years. Amory belongs to a relatively wealthy family, and has a highly bloated opinion of himself. He feels himself to be superior to others, and believes that he is smarter that his school fellows. At the same time he wants everyone to think highly of him and value lhim more. He is incredibly vain when it comes to his own looks, and makes pretenses to literary knowledge, and understanding. Almost everything that he does is calculated to increase his social standing amongst his circle. The very first time he hangs out with a girl, and kisses her, he is almost digusted by the act, and feels he never wants to do that again. However he gets into the situation due to his own vanity. He also meets an acquaintance of his mother, a clergyman, and amory's conversation with him also leads him to form a more pleasing opinion of himself.
	Later on Amory goes off to prep school, and life there changes him quite a lot. The things looked for in a boy, are totaly different there, and amory being mallable, is changed a lot, although his vanity is still intact. He gets into Princeton, and there too quickly settles into life, and starts working to make rapid progress through the social structure there. However he is eventually disillusioned with things, and starts moving over to different ideals, after he finds someone rejected by the mainstream, and trying out new ideas, and feels him to be better than he himself is. Finally he quits college after failing a class, and goes off to war, without obtaining his degree. After the war once he comes back, he falls in love with his friends sister. Although the love is mutual and is mostly built on the oh so superficial we are both beautiful foundation, and lasts for some time, the girl dumps him since he has no money now (his fortune having mostly evaporated during during and before his college years), and leaves him heartbroken. He quits his job at an advertisement agency and goes on a drinking spree for three weeks before the prohibition prevents him from doings so.
	Finally he goes to a relative's in the country, and stays back after finding antoher girl there, whom he instantly connects with, on account of the great similarity in mindset between the two of them. However in the end they part, with a mutual knowledge in the futility of maintaining contact, and neither one regretting it. 
	The book was okay in its style and presentation. One thing that struct me was that it wasnt the book of a highly idealized character. By that I don't mean a character with flaws. There are idealized characters, with flaws, wiht are not realistic. Although Amory had non realistic flaws, the style of the work, and occasional observations here and there, show that the book could be written about anyeone, and it makes one wonder, if that kind of a book, looking into who you are as a person, or atleaset who you think yourself to be (which is mostly what the book does) how it would turn out, and whether or not you would be a cringey character, or just a sad one whom others with pity.It was overdramatic, but in a good way. Rating 8/10. Approx number of pages ~260.
