This is a book by Audrey Niffeneger. It had been a long time since I read a relatively
new book, and so I picked it up. I quite liked it, the writing being captivating,
and keeping the book interesting. The story itself was so so, but was still enjoyable.
The main thing it had going for it was novelty, where in it was different from
the usual romantic novel, and also from the usual time travelling stories which
focus more on paradoxes, or some kind of a fight. Here the time travel was
supposed to just be a casual background, and the story itself the foreground.
At least that's how their life's were supposed to play out. But as is only natural,
the novel gave a disproportinate amount of time to the time travelling bits, as
they are more intersting. I'll just summarize it chronologically as it will be
easier.
Claire, the wife of the time travellers Henry, first meets him at the age of
six. At that time Henry is middle aged. He gives her a list of times he shall
visit her, and it goes, until Claire is 18. Somewere along the line he tells
her that they are married. They form a deep bond through various situations that
they are thrown in. Later on at the age of 20, Claire meets Henry in his own
time. But at that time Henry hasn't yet met claire, and is himself a young guy
at the age of 28. They eventually fall in love and get married. The novel does
a great job at describing various aspects of their life. Henry suffers from
what is latter called as chrono displacement, and he finds himself suddenly
teleported to another location at another time. Generally to the past, but sometimes
also the the future. His subconscious seems to play a role here since he largely
ends up in places which have had a big influence on his life. The novel sweeps
the associated paradoxes with time travel under the rug by just saying that
Henry can't change things in the psat, even if he tries to so beyond a point he
gives up and stops trying. Later on Claire starts feeling empty and starts craving
a baby. Meanwhile Henry meets his destined doctor, who shall eventually become
famous for his discovery of chrono displacement syndrome. Claire and Henry try
to have a baby a few times but Claire miscarries as the baby travels out of the
womb, and back. However upon receiving information from a future Henry, Claire
perserveres and they eventually get a girl child, who is also a time traveller.
However she is more 'evolved' and can control certain aspects of her jumps.
Meanwhile Claire starts to worry over Henry dying as she has never seen him older
than 43. One night Henry jumps to a time in which it is very cold and he has no
clothes. He gets frost bite and his legs are amputated. Afterwards, he ends up
getting shot, in another one of his jumps and so he dies.
The ending was a bit botched, but however the overall story was truly amazing.
It was written masterfully, and the flow was great. The characters were all real,
but not too real which was kinda best, as too real is not too good and is for
awards not enjoyment. The organization of the book was also something nice.
Overall great, simple writing, which was a joy to read.
Approx no of pages ~450
rating : 9/10
