This is a book by Leo Tolsty. I'd read this 4 years back, and felt like reading
it again. I found that I'd forgotten most of the story and characters, which,
due to the immense number (unlike a stephen king novel of a similar size which
shall still follow a small band of people) of characters and their interactions
is not hard to forgive. I'd forgotten how good it was and really enjoyed the
second read more than the first. Due to its immense complexity, and lack of a story
in the modern sense, its would be vain for me to try summarizing it. However
a brief synopsis follows.
The novel is set in the napoleanic era, in russia (it being a russian book), and
at a time when russia starts out to war with napolean, till he is destroyed, (a
span of nearly 12 years). The Novel follows the lives of a few (mostly 3) noble
families, and how they are affected by the general war, as well as the troubles
of their daily lives, their aspirations, ideals, ideologies and beliefs etc. It
is one of the best novels in terms of character development, and the interaction
of characters. A few of the most important characters are Prince Audrey, Count
Bezukhov and Rostov. The first and last serve in the military and find their
complete world view dramatically altered, which might also have been part of their
growing up. Bezukhov (Pierre) is made a prisoner (while a civillian) and his
life also is drastically impacted (for the better) due to the french invasion
of moscow. The novel develops these, along with a few minor roles played by
their female counterparts, quite well, and sometimes a real page turner (though
not all that often).
A few things that struck me as interesting, the speaking of french by the russian
nobility, which is mirrored nowadays in Indian socieity with the speaking of
English being prized and valued as showing a person's culture (although such
notions seem to be dying out these days). Another aspect was Audrey's conversation
with Pierre where he asks Pierre, why its better to educate the peasants(serfs)
while that will only make them sadder, while they shall be happier if they are
freedom and holidays and small conviniences to make their life easier. The modern
tendency to educate everyone though well founded, seems lacking practicality, with
vocational training being more apt to most people, mostly due to a lack of resources
to provide quality of education for everybody (which, were it there, it would be
nice for everyone to be well informed). A last aspect which was interesting was
the disorder and chaos in the military, and the lack of control the higher ups,
the good ones recognizing this, and trying to get out of the way and do as little
damage as possible. Although it felt (atleast to me) as though Tolsty was taking
this point a little too far, it does seem to hold.
A few criticisms would include the pedantic style of writing, the black and white
attitude, and a failure to recognize nuance.
I would definitely recommend this book to everyone (as I would any book that I've
read twice). Approx no of pages ~1400. Rating 9/10.(almost 10, not quite)

