The wealth of nations written in 1776 by Adam Smith was one of the foundation books of modern economics, and the capitalistic system of free trade. Although I finished this book two weeks back, due to its relatively larger size, I kept putting off the writing of this summary due to my natural inertia. Finally doing it today. So the book itself was written by an insightful guy, which is immediately clear to anyone reading it. However it's style is a little dry, since most of the book is citing examples, mainly through the prices of things like corn in the past. Right now I'm reading das kapital, so should see how that will clash with the ideology put forward by the wealth of nations, which seems very reasonalbe and logical to begin with. The one great advantage I see in the system proposed by Smith is the freedom of each individual which it ensures. Also setting up of such a system, shall not put too much power in a few people, (atleast technically, the rich still are powerful, but theoritically the political power is not so much as to give anyone the power over the life of the average person in the society) and so would be easier to set up that a communistic form of governmnt. So without further ado lets begin.
	The book one starts off by talking about the main reason for the great improvement in quality of life that we see today, which is division of labour and its associated concept of trade for mutual benefit. Division of labour leads to specialization and vastly improves the productivity of a person or group of people who follow such a policy. Bigger markets are superlinearly better because Division of Labour is increases with the size of the market and so even greater specialization is possible. Money is just something to keep account by, since in division of labour, trade is essential, one person having a large quantity of one kind of 'good', more than he can use, and since he devotes all his time to the making of that good, he has to get his other necessities from others, and everytime he wants something, he'll have to trade them that which he has, which shall most of the time may not be desired by the person with whom he is trading. Money solves this problem by acting as a medium of account, and facilitating trade. Money is essentially just an account of labour, because in the end the only thing that people trade is labour for labour, each good's value being equal to the amount of labour put into it to produce it. In the sense that money is just an account, its unit doesn't matter, since in the end people are only trading labour for labour. So the real cost of a good is its cost in labour, while its nominal cost is its cost in money, and for the latter, the units of money matter, while for the former, they don't. The price of a good can be broken down into three main parts, wages which are directly related to labour, profits which are like wages for direction and coordination, and rent whose value is determined by the labour needed to attain it and its productivity. The cost of rent is less in the case of highly manufactured good as composed to more rude produce. Allowances in the price of labour are made in case of extreme ingenuity and skill or hardwork. The natural price of goods is the cost of that good, namely the sum of wages, profit and rent. The market price of a good is determined by the quantity of the good brought to the market and the effectual demand. The market price adjusts to the natural price since if its less, the supply would diminish, since no one would want to produce something which doesn't give 'profits' and if its above the natural price, more stock would be drawn to its production, since people would be attracted by the higher prices received, until it becomes the natural price again. However in a market the sellers, may try to hide the natural cost, so as to prevent this latter situation from happening, so that they shall get more 'profits'. A monopoly has essentially the same effect as such a trade secret.
	The produce of labour are a natural recompence for the wages of labour. Initially when there was no profit, and no rent, the cost of a good was cheaper (in terms of only labour) but with addition of profit and rent the real price increases. Now the master pays the worker for his labour and it is the master who sells the good, so his own labour is added to the good, and its cost goes up. Workers and masters interact via contract, and the price of labour is determined by a variety of reasons. Generally in an increases country, the wages of labour are very high, and in a stationary country the wages are low. The birth rate is almost constant, regardless of prosperity of a nation, but the rearing of children depends on the wages, and so the number who survive to adulthood depends on the wages. Hence in a rapidly progressing country the population increases, while in a stationary country it remains largely constant, everyone who can be supported by the land already being supported. There is more demand for labour in cheaper years than in dearer years. The profits of stock depends on availibality. Its more in the country than in towns which plentiful capital is availabe. Its also higher in poorer countries than in rich ones, and its also higher in rapidly progressing countries although they tend to eventually diminish. 
	The employment of labour and stock tends to lead to the same returns in all fields in case of perfect liberty and informtaion. If one path leads to higher returns more would go towards it which would bring it back to the natural rate. Inequalities in wages may arise due to agreeableness of employment, cost of learning the trade, costancy of employment, trust reposed and finally with probability of success. Most of these factors do not affect returns on stocks which are more evenly distributed than wages. Probability of success is however not accurately calculated, with probability of success being overvalued and that of failure undervalued, especially amongst young people. Generally wages for labour which doesn't fully occupy a person are lesser. Government policies, which serve to reduce competition also lead to this inequality. Encouragement of unions does the same thing. The inequalities do not depend upon whether the nation is progressing rapidly or not. The cost of rent depends on many factors such as availability of roads, fertility etc. The use of the land is regulated again based on the returns offered by undertaking. I'll end the summary of book one, and give very brief summaries of the remaining books, since book one had the more non intutive, but still true, and insightful stuff, which is more important. Although there is more to book one I'm ending it here, because its taking too much time.
	Book 2 is about the employment of stock, and its driving forces. Stock is generally a stored amount of labour, which is giving to those who want it, in expectation of its return with an augmentation to it. The amount of augmentation expected will depend mainly of the risk associated with the person not paying back the stock. The inequality of returns of stocks after accounting for risk is very low. Stock employed in maintaining productive labour is augmented where productive labour is that which in turn produces something of value, while unproductive labour such as an army or servants whose value produced is lost the moment it is produced, leads to a diminishment of the national capital supply. Although actual stock may be divided in complicated ways, a free market tends to supply capital to those who value it the most.
	Book 3 is about the driving reason behind the wealth of a nation, which is agriculture. Its very important since people need it to survive. Based on the productivity of land, one can easily predict the population, since they are closely related. He talks about fall of Roman empire, because there was no security for farmers, whose lands were constantly pillaged, and so they had no incentive to improve them. However later on, when things became more lawful and there were clear cut laws stating rights of descendents to lands ( generally eldest son gets it) the state of things improved.  Colonies like America were fast developing due to rapid development of land. Trade between the town and the country is beneficial for the country, since it provides a larger market for its goods, and it also gives capital to the country to improve land, as well as provide tools with which to do so. The country also has access to a larger market, and so they shall be happier as well. Slaves are bad because they don't have an incentive to work, and generally wage workers are more productivity and more profitable.
	In Book 4 smith takes about Political economy. Two main systems of political economy have been in used, one is the system of commerce and the other is the system of agriculture. The main goals for both are to provide for prosperity of the people. In the mercantile system, most government following it has the misconception that a rich country, like a rich person is one who has more money, but smith shows that money is just a place holder, and its absolute value has no significance. Any government policy aimed at keeping the money in the country, necessarily curtails free trade, and is bad for the country, and achieves a goal directly opposite the intention of the people. However some people get richer in the process, and so they shall lobby to keep things the way they are. Import quotas are almost always bad except in some rare cases such as it being beneficial for the maintainance of the nation's security. He says that arguments such as the cheapness of wine making more people drunk, don't hold considering that rich people drink less than poor ones. He says subsidies given to goods so that they can be exported, are bad, are are rarely warranted. When talking about colonies, he says that they create a lot of wealth, but the prevention of the interaction of colonies with other countries, except via the parent country, shall lead to everyone being worse off. Colonies also cost more in the long run and its not commercially viable to maintain them, especially given the cost of wars. He concludes the book by saying that its not the vast majority who are the consumers who benefit, but the producers who benefit by the mercantile system. He finally observes that in agriculture we create value out of nothing by only adding labour, whereas in manufactoring the labour added only increases an already nonzero value. However both are important, and one should let the free market decide. The capital spent on agriculture, if the farmer were also forced to sell his own goods, would also be split, so that a part of it would go towards selling the produce, and there would be less left to work on the improvement of land. So government should no subsidize agriculture, nor should it prohibit merchants, who also play an important role, and help equalize prices throughout the country. In free societies the government only has to protect their terrorities, ensure property rights and establish law, to give a sense of security and maintain some institutions which are beneficial, but would not be feasible if they were private in the free market.
	In the 5th and final book, he takes about revenue and expenses of the government. The government needs money to maintain an army to protect its terrority. Generally standing armies are superior to militia, as they are better trained. However they are typically more expensive. In larger countries the government has a standing army, and only a very small percentage of the population constitute the country's fighting forces. However in more backward and smaller countries a militia is maintained, wherein most men train ocassionally, and fight in times of war, carrying out other activities at other times. Historically a standing army has always proved superior, especially in recent history, where in the widespread use of guns has made things unpredictable and chaotic, and discipline is esspential to win. The government should also spend money on some insitutions which are essential for public welfare, but which wouldn't survive in the free market. One such institution is education. However he feels that teachers should be paid by students so as to incentivize they to work hard. Rich people should be taxed at a higher rate, since one dollar can't mean as much to a wealthy person as it does to a poor person. Taxes are essential to the functioning of a government, which is in turn essential to maximize public welfare. A country shall go into debt, during times of war and in some other situations. Although some amount of debt is acceptable it would be better to keep some money in store for rainy days. He feels that debt shall be the main reason for the ruin of a country. He finally says that although Britain is better than most nation's mainly due to its policies on trade, it could be better. However it should not make false pretenses to grandeur, which shall otherwise be its ruin.
	So I end this rather shoddily done summary. He goes into great details on banks someplace in the book, I seemed to have missed it here. But it was an edifying read, and helped me see through propoganda, and also to see that fact that control of these policies is with people, who are easily misguided and generally stupid, and not with some ideal being who is super smart and knows exactly what zir is doing. I'd recommend it to people if they don't mind dry stuff, since if you can get through the dry parts, its actually a really nice read. The english usage is an added bonus. Rating 9/10. Approx no of pages ~1200.
