This is also a novel by Jack london and is very similar to call of the wild.
its been divided into five parts and I'll alos try to break up the summary in a similar way.
1)
A duo of humans, and a team of sled dogs are on a journey across the cold hard snow. However they are followed by a pack of wolves, which have eben driven to desperation due the the famine in the land resulting in a lack of game. The two men start noticing strange happenings in the camp, and eventually the dogs start going missing one by one. The female half dog half wolf in the wolf pack has been luring the dogs out of the circle of fire, one by one and the pack has been killing them off and eating their fill. However with increasing desperation they keep coming closer to the fire, and the humans start to fear for their lives. The female dog/wolf seems to be wise to the ways of man, and frustrucates every move of the men. Eventually most of the dogs and one man die off, and the other has given up hope. But at that moment, another party chances upon them, and the wolf run away.
2)
The she dog/wolf was the one who scented the humans, and followed them. She was courted by the pack leader, a young virile male and and old vetran wolf. As long as they were hunting the humans the pack of 40 wolves sayed together, but they eventually disband growing smaller and smaller. Only the ones courting her, remain with the she wolf/dog. Eventually the pack leader and vetran kill off the young virile male, but the pack leader shows the vetran his back, and is soon killed off. The she wolf is pleased by this display of strength and for the first time plays with the vetran, who's attention she has surned till then. They soon copulate and she gives birth to a litter of pups. The father is killed during huting whlie trying to provide for the pups, and eventually a famine strikes, resulting in the death of four of the five pups. The one surving pup, in its explorating of the world runs into a few Indians. The she wolf comes in and starts growlining, but one of the Indians recognizes her and upon calling her name, she calms down and submits to them, going back into bondage.
3)
His life in the Indian village is not very pleasant. However there he grows to admire man and his power of non living things. Howver due to his 75% wolf heritage most of the dogs dislike him, and don't mingle with him, instead persecuting him and ostracizing him. Therefore he grows to hate dogs and constantly quarells with them, becoming smarter, stronger and better than them, because genetics. Eventaully his mother is sold away to antoher Indian, and white fang feels very bad. Once when the village si shifting away, white fang feels the call of the wild and runs away into the forrest, but his early domestication by man, has left him unprepared for forest lfie, and he runs back to the Indians.
4)
During this time white fang grows up, a ferocious dog, loyal to his masters, and bane of other dogs.His smartness and quickness makes him invaluable to his masters. At that time they go to a white settlement. There his master takes to drinking alcohol and becomes and addict, and eventually sells him for a few bottles of whiskey. White fangs new white master, is quite perverted and sadistic and ill treats his dog, constantly putting him in fights with other dogs. White fang is always victorious, and hence survives. However one time he encounters a bull dog, whose short stature and persevering nature throws him off, and confuses him. The bull dog gets a death grip on white fangs throat, choaking the very life out of him, but luckily at that time, a lover of dogs comes in and breaks up the fight, and forcibly takes white fang away from his previous master. Although whtie fang has become very ferocious and suspicious and bites his saviour. However this does not anger him, and he starts trying to win white fang over. He succeeds, and white fang grows to love him to a distraction, so much so that he doesn't even eat or drink while his new master is not around. 
5)
His master now has to go back to the south from whence he came, but is worried about white fang, not making it without him. He still decides he can't take so ferocious a creature bakc south, and locks him in the house and heads to his ship. Howver white fang breaks out through a window and jumps on board the ship. At that moment his master resolves to take whtie fang back with him. Back south he introduces white fang to his family. White fang has a lo to learn but  quickly learns under the guidance of his beloved master. He has a few misadventures but learns from them and never repeats them. However the household dogs tream him with suspicion and always ill treat him. However white fang continually shows his loyalty to th efamily and wins them over. After a couple of years the local dogs grow friendly and he even sires a few puppies with one of the bitches. At that time, a criminal tries to kill hsi masters father and whtie fang saves hsi life, at a severe cost to his own health. This makes him a hero and everyone loves white fang. White fang spends his life happily every after with his pups.
Rating 8/10. Approx no of pages 200.
